Skip to main content



Post to Slack

Share


Nicholas's Meeting Notes

Nicholas Folarin-Coker
Today at 1:32 pm

19 Screenshots

Copy Summary

Summary

Transcript
Keywords
Speakers
Speaker 1 (100%)
Oh, yeah, yeah, it
looks like it's working now.
Fantastic. I
it.
This
is one
sharing my screen. Yeah, will
it not be more confusing? Cannot make one that's just the questions. No, then
I can make it quickly, one that's like
just the questions, because I guess she's her seeing all the content.
Yeah, but it is super Popular. I can Do that. I
yeah, I would, I would share my screen, but I have so many things open right now. Okay, I've just pasted the link in the chat Here. I
All right, Timmy, I'm with you.
Hi, Gemma,
perfect, right?
Ijeoma, can you hear me clearly?
Just so that we can, just to be sure, where
would you say? Say that again. I was just saying. I was just asking, can you hear me clearly? Yep.
Okay, perfect. So I mean, thank you first of all for joining this interview. It's literally like 35 minutes max. I would imagine it would take maybe 40, if you push it. But I've got pintola on the call as well, who's working on this project with me,
and essentially, we are trying to build a retail sales training platform that is specifically targeted to retailers and sort of developing economies of Nigeria. So obviously, you've been one of the key retail, retail leaders in Nigeria. We thought it would be great to sort of interview just to ensure that the pain points that we see and we feel are the pain points that exist there are the actual problems that exist and are not just like working out of what we think is the issue. So we're doing these sort of quick interviews with, obviously, all the leaders that we can get hold of to just kind of sense, check and pull the thoughts on what you think would be relevant to incorporating this training module, how we deliver the module, and just, yeah, really, just try and get your your thoughts and insights. So that's really what we're doing today. Shouldn't take too much of your time.
So I'll just, I'll just kind of get into it, and then obviously, at any point, you know, just, please feel free to answer and just to go into the first question we have, really, is, what are the most common skill gaps you observe in your frontline retail staff today,
customer service, product knowledge.
I would, I think if you're talking about stores, I can go into a few things, but I think I would, I would start with those two, right? So being able to provide adequate customer service, knowing what good customer service looks like. You know, being proactive, following up, I would also say product knowledge. I've witnessed three instances where, and you know, customers are asking about specific information of a product and the the customer service rep that they're talking to, or the sales person that they're talking to is not really well versed in that, and I would probably go a little further to take that and kind of add it to like sales skills and being able to like close a deal, and being able To like connect the dots. So again, if a cus, if a customer is looking for certain features in a product, or looking for something that fits a certain need, I'm going to an event. And you know, you don't one, you can't really explain the benefits of a given product very well. And two, even if you don't have what they want, you don't know how to kind of, like, guide them to something else, you know. So I've seen people, for example, say the customer will be like, Oh, I'll be back, you know, which we know is kind of like a polite way to excuse yourself. And more than everything, I come back and they'll say, oh, you know, the salesperson will be like, okay, you know. And like, it's like that person is not coming
down. So, you know, like that was kind of a missed opportunity. I would probably
again, just like, when I say, like, overall customer service, product knowledge, and then again, I would call like sales skills, like being able to, like, sell people and get them to buy things, if that makes sense,
yeah, no, that makes that makes a lot of sense. And the next
question on that is, really, what key behaviours or competencies do you want to see consistently across services? So you've already spoken about some sort of like being able to close and being able to follow up. I guess that's a key behaviour you'd like to see. Are there other things at all that you'd like to see, you know, more consistently in the stores, specifically from the sales people, or from, like, the store
environment, or from what perspective, specifically from the sales people, so sort of like your
frontline store managers, and how they sort of the customer facing guys in your team on the software, just the level of enthusiasm. And,
you know, it's hard in Nigeria in a lot of places where people
can you hear me, it's hard in Nigeria in a lot of places, because I think people are just trying to get jobs. But I really think it would be ideal if people could get jobs that are good and suited for them. You know what I mean? Because you find people where it's like, I think there needs to be a level of enthusiasm and like, a level of like, interest and proactiveness when it comes to like, engaging customers. And, you know, sometimes people are there just for the sake of being there because they need a chat. Sometimes people, you know, are frustrated because their commute is very long, you know, and
therefore they're already like in, you know, not the best
mood, and it it's an idealistic perspective to say like people being matched to like their skills and to their interest. I think someone
who's more pleasant, someone who's friendly,
even if you don't know all the things about the products, is more effective than someone who's just there, kind of going through the motions, if that makes sense. Yeah, yeah.
I agree.
I know we're just kind of looking at so one of the things on this module,
with this training we're looking at is getting store managers involved in assessments, sort of more frequently. But to understand that, we also need to understand that basically how confident you are that your store managers will be able to evaluate people objectively, because that's obviously one of the challenges, putting all this responsibility on the managers, so sort of on a scale of one to 10, how confident are you that These managers can objectively appraise performance?
Six, I think there's a few things right. I I think from my observations, even in my current organisation and
Jumia and some prior places I've
been, we don't always do the best job of training people, right? I think people get into jobs, particularly like management, sometimes out of necessity, sometimes you're the strongest performer, so you just get promoted. But there's not a lot of training around like how to be a good manager, how to assess people, how to give constructive feedback, how to balance the dynamic between wanting to be liked and wanting to be effective as a manager or wanting to be respected. You know, sometimes I think it's used a little too much to people wanting to be liked, and therefore they don't do also do I feel like, generally speaking, people should have the ability to be to be objective and give constructive feedback. And yes, do I feel confident that they have that currently, no, not so much. But I don't necessarily know. I wouldn't go as far as that. It's a reflection of the talent themselves, and you know, them not having the capacity, or them not being smart enough to do it as much as it's potentially or equally as so a function of not training people properly on how to be managers, if that makes sense. Yeah, no, I get what you're saying.
So I mean that I feel like what you said. Also, this leads into the next question, which was about, like, obviously you said it's six and was more around, like the biggest concerns, but it also, it also already sounds like it's it's just like a lack of skills slash training on how to evaluate properly, more than anything, from your viewpoint. But do you think there will be other things in terms of, like, maybe personal biases, or you think that all these other options are sort of secondary to just not even having the skills. No, I think
personal bias always existed. But I think personal bias exists in every job, in every role, in every
geography. You know what I mean. So I don't think that that is
unique to this market or the skill level of people that we're dealing with, I think the best you can do to offset or negate the personal bias is through trainings, right? So things like, for example, I've gone through trainings where they would talk about, like, as you're going through assessments, things to keep in mind of, for example, like recency bias, like, Oh, I'm thinking, and I'm making my assessment of them based on the last few weeks, because they've been doing a good job the last few weeks, but over the course of the entire period, whether it be the last six months or year, they've actually not been that consistent, or all these other biases, again, like some people being friends, you know, I've been in Nigeria is an interesting place to me, because to me, it's very much a culture that's your advancement is very clearly dependent on like relationships. I think in other places, even though doubt is still probably true, they try to make it a bit more nuanced, and it's not as clear. So you know, for example, in Nigeria, I see people kind of hanging out across levels. So the manager is hanging out with the junior people or the people that report to them. That's a little foreign So, but that's a cultural thing, and if I'm thinking about it from the perspective of people who have been promoted, and this is my peer group, and I'm their manager, technically, you should separate yourself from them, but realistically, some of those people are probably your friends still, and, you know, maybe you take the bus together, or whatever the case may be. So do I think the biases? Yes, do I think you can train people a bit to reduce some of the bias? Yes, do I think you'll eliminate it completely? No, but I think that's for everywhere.
No. That's fair. Just one thing also we're looking at when we're trying to build this brain, something about this training, especially for a business like yours that has stores outside Nico, we know that there's situations that come up where people get into positions is out of convenience, like, if someone, let's say, in a store and let's profile leaves today and there's a manager, there's a tendency to just move the next person out to fold the vacancy, rather than because, again, maybe the pool out there is smaller the time to recruit someone's longer. But as in Lagos, it's probably multiple stores you could draft as a manager from one sort or another kind of keep their consistency in the business. So over time, if that has happened to you, I don't know if it has, but if that's what you've experienced as well, do you then find yourself in a position where you are more sort of trusting of your labour space managers almost more like of the remote satellite ones, just in terms of their ability to handle an assessment, because maybe they are actually more management or managerial level than people who have just assumed that position based on convenience.
Personally, no, I could see how people could do that. I've actually observed things in the Lagos based staff that shows some weaknesses in comparison to other markets, right or other regions, I should say so. For example, like if you're in ICAO City Mall, you're in some of these, like high traffic places, you don't have to work as hard, like the sales and the performance will come naturally. And if you're in some of these other places where the traffic isn't quite there, or, you know, again, the talent pool is smaller, some of the challenges that you mentioned, you actually have to be a little bit more skilled. You have to be a little bit more hands on.
So I think it's on a case by case basis. Like I have a very strong manager in a Bucha where I feel like I, you know, I could put him against like the store manager in VI as far as skill goes, I also think some of it may be a function of us as leaders, right? Like, how often do I get to Port Harcourt to really assess that, really to have an opportunity to work with
them? So some of it may be, yeah,
there the pool again, may be smaller all of the things you're saying, which I think is true. Like, obviously Lagos is a very concentrated city, so you have more people in general, but I think you again, I think it's case by case personally, and I also think some of it is like, how often are we as their leaders, you know, investing in them and pouring them and providing them the same resources or visibility or support that the Lego stores get like, you know, is it the VI store or the circle mall store or whatever store in Lagos, much more than they are kind of getting conditioned to operate at a higher level versus like you never, or you
very rarely, visit the Port Harcourt store,
yeah.
So we were also thinking about around what you just mentioned, and we then started brainstorming, probably doing, like a multi factor assessment based thing where it's like the manager, especially in location, where you already identify the manager as maybe not being great at assessment right or up to the level. Then we do a most faculty thing, where the manager assesses, but then there's also someone, say, for example, there's an area manager, I don't know, like someone in HR that's focused on performance management somehow, like we get a third person, basically, to then review what manager has done and also objectively, or some objectively, assess this person. Do you think that would other people? Do you think that would help, like, add adding another layer of authentication, especially for, I guess, stores that you know, the managers aren't quite as objective? Do you think that would help address some of these concerns on so specifically, adding like
another layer of is it assessment or another layer of training, assessment? So So,
for example, we if we did something where these sales associates have to do short tests or whatever for understanding every month, an example, and then the manager on site has to verify that the understanding so they probably, for example, potentially role play in front of the manager, and the manager scores them. Obviously, we fear that the manager may not be skilled enough in assessment or even bias or whatever. And so when we get a third person, someone else. So it could be an operations manager, area manager, or HR that is focused on performance management, someone else to then come in and essentially double
verify that process and also objectively grade. Do you think that would help, like, reduce, some of the, I guess, the error rates, yeah. I mean, we 
do something like that now. I think it's the equivalent of, like, having exams in school, right? Like, to the extent that your professor tells you to read chapters one through three and there's no exam or quiz, you may read it, you may not read it. You may read it, but read it passively and not really be focused on what you're reading and trying to attain the information or retain the information. Whereas, if you know there's a quiz, then you may be more proactive, right? You're taking notes, you're making sure that you get the reading done, things like that. So I think that adding in another level of assessment, whether it be done by HR or the area manager or whomever, to kind of test routinely on certain skills. Do I help? Yes, as long as there is a 
consequence. 
So I think doing the assessment, and that's something even me as a leader, I'm, I 
don't want to say 
struggling with, but, like, I'm trying to apply in Nigeria, right? Like, Nigeria, to me, more than other places I've been is very much a by fire, by force, kind of place where, like, won't do it just because you tell them to do it. They won't do it because it's necessarily the right thing. It's like they have to do it by force. And I'm generalising, some people will do it, some people will wait until there's a consequence and then do it, which is very disappointing, but you know that that's the nature of things. So I think it's not enough to just have the quiz. I think there needs to be some sort of penalty, like, if you score, you know, less than 75 on the quiz, you know at three times, you're going to be released, or, you know, if you score below 50 on any given occasion, you're going to be given a write up, because that shows that you're not taking your training and things Seriously. 
Yeah, I think that's a good feedback. 
So one of the next on the next question was really around the metrics that matter most of businesses I know further down discussion, those are things like that, measure ROI and almost overlap to discussion a bit. Well, I don't know if you can see on my screen, you've got things like basket size, conversion rate, I mean, one or two of these that really would like, sort of stick out to you in terms of wishing what matters most to your business. But also, I guess, what you'd like to see any training impact on your business. As well. Conversion 
Rate is always high for me because I you can't take I can't take raw score, like raw revenue or raw traffic, because, again, that's a function of like the location, the mall itself, things like that that are outside of people's control. When I'm trying to assess a store and the people in the store, I'm looking for factors that will indicate how good the people are. So when I think about conversion rate, irrespective of your traffic, how good are you at converting those people into sales, right? So basket size is nice, but again, basket size is a function of, like, willingness to pay and how affluent people are in the area and things, yeah, kind 
of like outside of your control. You can be a really good 
salesperson and they can't afford it, and it's just customer 
satisfaction. Also very high 
upselling success rate. I'm not sure how that would be measured. The other thing I would add to this is kind of what you just mentioned, which is, like, this training test score. So like, what is the average not training? Sorry, this quiz test scores, average score of people in that location, and then staff retention rates, is important. Obviously, you want people to feel like they have a future. I think it's really important to kind of like, show that there's a path and you don't have to leave. 
Or like, Okay, now that you 
finished uni, now you have to go get a real job, you know? So I think that retention aspect is important. But I also know I think people in this market are disloyal because times are hard and they need money. So they may like the job and things about it, but I need more money, practically speaking, to help my family, so I'm leaving so that one is a little bit I think it's important, but I think sometimes it has to be taken with a grain 
of salt. I think in any training that you've overseen, managing businesses Nigeria that you thought was actually quite effective, like, maybe now it impacted behaviour or anything like that. Like, was there anyone that maybe you could like, think back on and share with us. 
I mean, we storage training. 
Being very honest with you, I'm not involved. 
They do trainings with the 
different brand teams. Timmy, you're familiar with our business model, so like our teams have to interact with the brand teams. One thing I really tried to emphasise, though, is getting the store teams in particular, more integrated in these buy sessions or sell ins. Because I feel like when I was a buyer, I would go to these, like large selling meetings. To me, you're again, you're familiar, you travel. It's two, three days they walk through the product line, the story. This is the inspiration. These are the key products, all of that. And then you the expectation is I would have to go back, and then I would have to train or on that information to others. So it would be my sales team, marketing people, like different people who aren't in those meetings that I haven't seen that happen here. It could be a function of my organisation and a gap there, or just again, in general. So I think, like, I don't know that they're formalised trainings, but to the extent that I could get a couple representatives, even virtually involved in some of those selling sessions, helps people. And then I put together like assessment, where you know they have to it forces them to be proactive and mentally engaged, to take away information. Expectation is that they are now going to become like train the trainers like you now go and train the rest of the store managers are on which you learn, and store 
managers are expected to pass that on again, 
because I've mentioned that I feel like people don't have adequate product knowledge. So that's something I've tried to do, and just encourage more interaction with when there's these sessions with these brands, to include the storage teams and customer service teams too. Because, you know, we have the E commerce team, and I think customer service is left out, they're 
not thought about. And it's like a lot of people, when they're trying to buy out e com, or they want to do an exchange, 
customer services overlook the most and 
they know the least. And then, as it relates to other training that I recently did, a manager training with the team that I thought was effective, at least from the perspective of the moderator and some of the lessons he tried to apply, really in terms of like opening this two day session and allowing people to vent on everything that they think that's wrong. And that kind of exercise becomes very much a bit like you, you you or the organisation, or, you know, a lot of finger pointing, and then over the course of two days, trying to get people to create a level of awareness and accountability on how they as managers are impacting the output. So it's not just like these things are happening to me, and woe is me and I have no control, but more of these are things that are happening within the organisation. Are you again attuned enough to understand, like, why these things are happening? Are you asking questions, or
 are you kind of just doing your day to day and not really showing that level of involvement, and then coming back to, like, the organisation when something happens that you're you don't understand whereas you should have actually understood why it was happening. So I think those are the two things that I've tried to implement that I would call out. Okay. 

Stop Notetaker
23:15





AI Chat

Outline
Comments

Retail training platform. (0:00)
Consistent customer service skills (5:07)
Managers need training (7:57)
Bias and training in hiring (11:11)
Leaders invest in Lagos staff (14:59)
Adding assessment layers for objectivity (17:00)
Training metrics for businesses (20:04)
Summarizing
How would you rate this summary?

Not Useful

Useful

There's not a lot of them, so you can't poach. I mean, what I'm used to is an environment where people can come from different companies and you poach. Even in the retail sector, a lot of people are coming from Jumia because Jumia is the biggest. Obviously, they don't have the physical stores, but Jumia may not be perfect as we all know, but they're the biggest. And it's like there's just this gap, and I think part of the gap feels like people have never seen it, so it's challenging to expect people to be able to do things that they've never seen. Whether it be from a customer service standpoint or from an operational standpoint, and you know people being reluctant. So I think to have a service where like, "Hey, I can use this company and they can come out quarterly and they can do some of these trainings as it relates to soft skills and specifically related to detail," I think that that would be valuable.

Yeah, I'm just going to debate a bit from the question just to explain where we come in. One of the things is we're trying to do almost like a mobile lead training thing where we have the salespeople constantly learning. So it would be let me just for the sake of simplifying it, let's call that right, that has 10-minute long videos.

Need to be watched, right? And they need to be assessed. Now, it's partly self-paced in that in the course of a month, it's really essentially 50 minutes in total, right? So you could decide to watch it all in the space of an hour. You decide to watch a weekly into your business. You do the assessment and then you do the assessment. And that's how it works. So you need to be watched. And then you need to be assessed. And it could be like the second Wednesday and the final Wednesday. The store manager has the control on how they would assess. But essentially, then you'll come to the assessment day, which will be in the first hour of the day. So not really affecting the sales day, it'll just be like the hour before the store opens up. Actually come in, you have already watched your videos and done your basic assessments like a quick test on your phone or whatever. And you've sort of certified on your end that you understood that and you ticked it off. But then we can't actually move forward until the manager finally approves that you've shown satisfactory knowledge or understanding. And the way you would display that is then you come to this training base in your store and sort of role play and weigh in on what you've seen or whatever to prove understanding. And once the manager understands or is satisfied that you know enough, we then take it through and then we can go to the next stage and like that. And so we would have this partly self-paced but there's also sort of that cohort aspect to it as well because at the end of the day, you're moving as a cohort through the training. And obviously we know that we spend time training people, we know like bringing them into conference rooms, taking them out of the store. There's so many challenges with all of this and that's why we decided to make it sort of like mobile first with obviously the physical side. And then what we've now tried to, what we're looking at growing with it is essentially building this out into something that actually really standardises the industry. So we want to get to a point where it's like a manager at any level whether it's in brand core or small market or architecture or whatever, needs to have a minimum level of certification. So for example, the manager needs to have been on level A meaning that if you are hiring anyone in the industry from whoever the person is like, at least it's like some sort of standardisation that we know this person has demonstrated this level of knowledge and understanding and this is the standard in the industry. We're not gonna just get someone in that's just gonna shoot up his way into being a manager, say he was a manager in architecture even though he wasn't, you know what I mean? Or wasn't even at this right skill level. So that's really what we're trying to do. Build this thing out where it's like we will use managers to assess frequently and then we can then build out the standardisation of the industry. But there's a third aspect we're adding on which is because we know managers aren't the greatest and they're not, not every manager is gonna be fair like we said or gonna be even adequately skilled, we are thinking of doing twice so like bi-annual cohort examination so everyone has done everything of course all the retail stores that we manage or support or whatever in the first six months of the year would have like an examination. And then so that what your managers have done has helped you yes you've been doing tests every month but like as a six month mark you're gonna do a test that we would then objectively grade so that we know the standard of the industry like this is where everyone is everyone at this level got like 70 percent if your team in this company is at 30 percent then obviously your managers are doing a bad job of actually working with their families and they're just taking completion but they're not actually like developing because the rate in the industry is moving up and it's that's what I'm saying. That's really what we're trying to do. I don't know if you if it's a bit clearer or that's really what we're trying to do. Yeah it is clear and it's nice so you know well done to you it's ambitious because you're trying to regulate it like you're the way I understand what you're saying is like you are trying or to be the regulatory body for retail. Like when you say if you don't have a score of 8 as determined by this particular company or at least you don't have that stamp of approval then you're a manager. 


