Steel Factory:

So this is an account of the time I spent going around the steel factory. It's going to be many of these, but we're going to start off with the steel factory because that's what I have in front of me in my notes.

Okay, so I guess what I will start off by doing is saying at the high level, as I recall the steel factory and then we can get into them. So the steel factory operates at the group level. They are based near the head office on the mainland of Lagos, Nigeria. And they have a number of departments, people off the top of my head, I remember sales, design, the workshop, and then the workshop with bending, there's the oven, there's cutting, there's the laser, plasma. They serve both external and internal, so they make things for others' visions, but they also make things for clients, or customers rather. And yeah.

So, I have a note here. From all of the divisions of the companies, they can make an internal request that is still production, division, and then you can also get from the external people and they essentially request and they get a quotation and they get a lead time, which is like one to four weeks. And then the report on the lead time is shared with the people that requested it. So next we move to the flow for internal. And this was given to me from the sales leader or head of sales.

So what you have is two options, you have standard and you have a non-standard product. First we're going to focus on standard items or standard products have an item code. And the request can be made from the central store, which is in the head office, or from the New Land store. They keep the vision stock so that they don't have to ask every time. So the vision is like they keep their own stock and they keep diesel tank in stock. When I say they keep in stock, I'm referring to the steel fabrication. So they keep some division stock so that they don't have to ask every time. And they keep diesel tanks in stock with some customers they like to take diesel tanks with them. So every week they produce more and then they send that stock to the store. It's that they put the stuff in the store. Not that they themselves are always keeping it.

Now for a non-standard bit of stock or product, what happens is they are going to get an email request stating what. So they get an email request and they're going to state what they have or they get a manual request which could come through a number of different ways. And then they speak with the design department of the steel fabrication unit. And they share a drawing plus feedback. And then if the request is okay with the request, then they generate an item code. And that's when they ask production is possible based on the drawing. And from there, the store will create a code. You know, two codes one for the painted item or the painted product and then obviously the unpainted product. That unpainted product, you know, it's made or it's like cut out or whatever. And then it's sent to assembly and then they add the paint. And then they send to the store for delivery.

Okay, so a couple of notes I have here is that CNC stands for Computerized Numeric Control or NC which is Numeric Control. And essentially what you have is as a process, design, sorry, sales, sending to design who sends back to sales, who then sends to the CNC/NC, who then send to the oven and assembly and then send to the store and deliver. It's kind of like the flow or process of things. Now, Delivery to Requestor. You have two options, you have Pickup or you have Delivery. Now some items require assembly like racks, sort of panel structures or platforms. And then you have... yeah, and then that was basically what he said on Delivery to Requestors in this part. So next we had the external people so they can walk in, they can come through as a referral or personal contact through WhatsApp, through Phone Call, through Sales Outreach. And I have a note here that says why we want local clients to purchase standard products and the reason why is because there's an advantage. The advantage is customization. Right, so if they're interested, we create a quotation. So that's like where the client will walk in and get a hard copy but sometimes they don't walk in and actually they just share their interest in another channel and then they get an email. But they can visit the site and take measurements. As in when I say they're like members of the company that I'm working for that as well, what they can do is they can go to the site and you can take measurements. Then PFI which is a pro-forma invoice with account details is sent and then what they do is they raise what's called... I guess this is where we start talking about different processes that they have. So they send a PFI with account details, they raise a production advice and then they confirm with design if the program, that's why I like the CNC and all of this stuff is, they have matches what is in production so the right product is made and if not the file is updated, then production which is the CNC/NC accepts and they view this up until 3pm so that they can then plan time to complete and they send a timeline for the job back to sales and they copy in assembly in that email. Then assembly defines their due and finish date and sales are the ones that communicate with the client and sales plans, visits and delivers and sorts of all of those kind of things. That is the process externally for a standard product as we were talking about before. Now for a non-standard product, most meetings are online but some are in person for non-standard. So you invite the design team to discuss, they then create drawings which they share with sales and those drawings via sales are shared with the client. The client then approves of the costing and a bill of material is raised by the accounts department which is then shared with sales. Sales will then generate a PFI, a pro forma invoice and send it to the client which is where the negotiation begins until an agreement is met once the agreement is met. Account details for the steel fabrication company or the conglomerate company that also exists at the location. Then generally speaking they accept 70% in advance and then 30% at the end from their production. So the job is raised, a new program is created for the machine to be able to create the non-standard product and new item code is processed. Then once it's been gone from the whole process of open assembly and then it's ready in the store and then it's prepped. It was generated, the customer pays the balance at which point. They send to invoice and they add to the ERP with the prices and details because obviously this is a non-standard product so they need to add it to their system. And then a complete invoice and a sales order which is authorized by accounts is created in the sales invoice and the sales order plus the PFI send with to the customer. The payment is linked with the customer so we know that they paid them for and then a delivery order is printed and sent to the store to create what's called a way bill or a delivery note. And then they pick it up or they link that delivery to the invoice. Also on the payment before I said it was 70/30 but management is allowed to approve 50/50.

So continuing on the steel factory, yes, some clients they visit and get photos of jobs in progress or status updates and the company, as in like the company making the product that I work for does a job completion letter for projects. Just so they can like, you know, say, "Oh, we acknowledge that we have received this." And then customer service sometimes does a phone call and email. Next we're talking about job applications, so any division or any branch can directly accept and not push through to the head office. So like if an item needs fixing or a small amount of welding or paint if needed, you can just do a squad raising a job card. You do this for the things that have been consumed as well. And then they kind of in accounting, they do that against the branch. So moving products from A to B through the company and then also labor. But when it comes to clients, you know, you've got cutting and bending and laser cutting. So you do a job application or instructions center production. And then when it's ready, you raise the job card, you complete the work. The job card is closed and you create a PSI or pro forma invoice. You send it to the store. And then from there it's delivered to where it needs to go.

Next, we're looking at the steel factory from the viewpoint of the accounts department. So they receive a payment advice, say, pro forma invoice or PFI from sales. This is done before delivery and a payment advice is essentially a receipt. And then there's a confirmation done by head office and what they do is that they check the bank accounts and they deduct or clear the outstanding based on what has been paid. And then they issue a main sales invoice and a process delivery. And then the store becomes invoiced. Now next we have that account must link a payment to a job for a delivery to happen. Otherwise it's not allowed and sales will invoice the... Sales invoice will link the payment confirmation so that everything is linked to a delivery to the customer. So in terms of order you've got the PFI and you have the bank receipt and you have the confirmation and then you have the sales invoice. And this is the process to ensure that no money is lost. And the head office was essentially at the bank receipt point they'll say, "Do you see in company bank accounts the money?" And then they post that to what's called a client ledger. Next we have that account starts costing. So before sales are made accounts does the costing based on the current market price and exchange rate and then sales goes and tries to negotiate that with the client. They also do regular inventory reports with the store. Like for payable and the spending that's for quarter, mid-year and annual and they send these reports to management. And there's also material issues. So when items are leaving the store and going to production or maintenance is needed they need to do a materials issues report and this needs to be quantified and costed. So materials at certain price must leave at that price. Price cannot be changed except by the head office. That's a very important part that we have to pay attention to. So for example you have a production job that costs ABC and that's the total cost implication and there's maintenance needed for some example. So in terms of how much you have the item and the cost of the two column headings, I don't want to do it to the free and the cost is 10, 20 and 30 so that comes to 60. And anything you use must pass through the store and do this to manage liabilities in the books or accounts. So you apply costing and then you post to the necessary ledger so that everything is accounted for. So everything is leaving the store and there's just money lost. As I said before these are the kind of processes that they do so that no money is lost. Thank you.

Design Steel Fabrication:

Okay, so next we're still in steel fabrication, we're talking about design. So next we have, just a few terms, so assembly is like an expanded diagram similar to what IKEA does. Pre-limb drawing is like a CAD drawing and a nesting is a type of drawing that a machine can read. It's a bit more technical, but it looks a very specific way. Standard means that it was made before, for example, warehouse rack. In generally speaking, it goes sales, getting the information, passing it on to design. I think we spoke what's for the back and forth between them, then agreement, and then it goes to production. Now for non-standard, a design inspection or visit or going to the site to gain the product specification and the preliminary design drawing is made, with dimensions, etc. And then it's approved or not until it's ever confirmed. And revisions are done essentially until production team are ready to start. And obviously sales is the one that confirms that the client not designed. So it's a prerequisite to sales, you can speak to the client, you can expect to design. Design team don't like to speak to the client. Once it's been confirmed, a bill of material for the components is drawn up and also a bill of quantity, which is the exact amount used plus extra for any abnormalities is drawn up. Then this is accepted, what's communicated to sales, then they speak to the client, that's negotiation and they accept and create a percentage. Once that percentage is paid, the design team then raises a, actually no, they've been the design team, but I think the sales team does, they raise a job order. I'm like the first advice. And then they also do the product code. Once they've made a product code, that's what essentially makes it standard and a preset so that they can then remake that thing again. Because then when they get that kind of order again, they can all look at it, oh, we've done that before, cool. Then they go ahead, the design team goes ahead and creates the four designs. Plus the workshop drawings, so that's the nesting. So no, they do the four designs, the workshop drawing and the nesting, that's the program. The nesting is a program, an interchangeable term. From there, a production workshop. It goes to the production workshop, which is then sending the drawing plus the nesting files plus the assembly drawing and everything to the production team. They then return the job order to sales with a stamp. And then sales takes over as we've spoken about before. Some notes on this, the store can say that they have no material based on. Like just what they have around and then they can try to change the material. But that has to be a conversation that's had to everyone's agreement. Also accounts can make a component change. You know, they can say like, oh, I can use this. Instead of this, we can use this process to make this thing instead of this one. So you can say, oh, can you use the laser instead of punching? And yeah, that is design.

Production Steel Fabrication: 
So next we're looking at the production for the steel factory or steel fabrication. Yeah, let's begin. So we've got the CNC punching machine, which uses CADMA, the CADMA software. Unless you use to make the program, like I said, or like the nesting for the machine to follow. You have round profiling, you know, as something you could make or like canopy for a generator. Anyway, each program has a code and that is added on a flash drive, which is then inserted into this machine. And also, they also specify, they being a design specify the tools required, like the different attachments and stuff. And those are manually added to the machine's station at a specific location. So again, just in terms of the flow, you've got the design, you've got cells, then you've got design, then you've got the production to select like thickness, then you've got, you know, punching for the design, and then you've got shearing, which is splitting. You also have plasma, which is like a laser cutting. And that is light punching, but it uses gas. It doesn't require shearing, and it's also something that requires a program. Shearing can use like a 1.5 to 3 millimeter, whereas plasma can go from like 6 millimeters to 30 millimeters. You also have what's called a fire-band-lasing machine, which can do like 1 millimeter to 12 millimeter. It's like plasma, but it uses a flame, but it's slower than a plasma machine. You also have the bending section, which is, it uses a workshop drawing, and it uses AutoCAD or SolidWork to like figure out what the program is and how it should be bending the metal. It's not as automatic like people having to guide the metal in and move it around so they can then be bent. And then you've got fabrication, which is grinding, so smoothing and cleaning. You've also got spot welding machine, which is more cost effective because instead of welding like an entire line, I just weld to spot. You also have a rolling machine for making things like a diesel cylinder. And then, you know, after you've done all of this, you go to paint and assembly. And this is essentially where you go from finished parts, like all of these parts that we've just spoken about being made to go into finished goods. And you know, it's like generators, lockers, enclosure panels, shelves, chairs, benches. And essentially what's happening is you're getting parts from the CNC as a plate. And then you're turning the metal finished goods. So regarding the paint, you have a 905 and 910, a 732. You have astro-stress light. And you also have a red. There's black, there's white, there's signal gray, and there's generally in two parts. You have a liquid paint, which doesn't require an oven. And you have a powder paint, which requires an oven. When you use the powder, you kind of like paint it and then like you bake it. That's actually to let it set. Also, when the paint, so not with the paint, when the plates have been out for some time because they're still, they oxidize it. So you have to use sandpaper to remove the rust. You can also do, or they generally also do a chemical wash, rinse and cure in the oven. And then they do the paint before they then cook or yeah, the baking as I was saying before. And in terms of the oven, there's like a few types. You have the manual oven, you have the water oven. The water oven is older than you, the manual is the other one. The manual oven obviously is all done manually by hand and the washing by hand and also the rinsing. So in terms of the process, you've got sanding, both the sandpaper, you've got the chemical clean, you've got the hanging, you've got the painting and you've got the curing. When it's not painted, that's unpainted, it's called naked. And like I said before, you wash, you rinse, you dry, you paint, you cure. The auto oven has like a conveyor hanger, so all of these processes it's going through is it's just like moving around the workshop. The oven is preheated for one hour just so that everything is working properly. And yeah, it goes through section, so it goes through a panel section, you know, it's the warehouse. Then it goes through a liquid section and it goes through an oven section. And in terms of some terms, you have raw materials stored, which is like everything. And they have the finished goods stored, so it's just a finished goods. Bigger items like, you know, larger generator like colors or like casings or housing units are generally liquid painted because it's faster to do a small item in the oven but you obviously can't really look through the conveyor belt and all those kinds of things. And when you're doing liquid painting, you use a spray gun that has an air compressor. The largest like generators that they use are called NTUs, there's a gas. They have diesel generators, which are generally like Perkins or York. Like I've been saying before, you also have the York blue line. The NTU generators are massive like the generally outside, so you have to sand, wash clean, and dry them. Then you have to apply a primer, which is like a prep for painting. And that prep for painting then stops the rusting from happening. And also just as an aside, the independent power plant or the IPP department will generally like test everything like the engine before it like goes out. And like generally the generators don't have like a silencer, a radiator, an air handler or a little bit of an engine and the alternator.

To avoid having to constantly ask for stuff as well, some departments have sub stores just so that they can have things a bit easier on hand. Another note that I have is in terms of soundproofing, you have soundproof, you have ultra-super silent. Also another note I have is that info on the material consumed by paint and assembly must be accounted for on the ERP.

Production Assembly: 
So I'm continuing on. As we said, QA is there from the beginning. So you can see everything that's going on and also QA is a separate department. So as I said before, this is just right now I'm talking about the production assembly. So they receive the CKD, the complete knockdown, they add it to the production line. There is a mechanical stage, which is S1. Then there is a conformity check to see that it's physically intact. Then there's a conplint, where the alternator and the engine are held with surrounding bolts on the outside. Then they fix the engine to a crossbar. Then they add the anti-vibration rub bar. Basically they add anti-vibration and then they use a crane if needed. Then there's an engine setup, sorry, engine on prep based on and then each anti-vibration enters a bolt or they add the bolt. Then they do a spiral and flat washer and nut for mounting and then an inner bolt is tied between everything and then it's fixed to an assembly with the oil switch and then they add the engine oil and they add the conplint to the radiator. Then there's the mechanical check. Then they move to the electrical stage where the COMAP display, which is essentially the control panel is added and then inside of that you have the current transformer, the fuel relay and the start relay fuse. Next you have the electric people will mount the panel and do the wiring for the generator and they fix the water level switch which is a measure of cooler level and temperature and then they do an oil switch fix to measure the amount of oil. From there they then add the electrical fuel gauge which is a measure of the fuel level. They then fix the energy button onto the generator and they do the speed control which is inside to check the speed of the engine. Then we move to a testing stage where you do a test run. So they test the generator rating can deliver what's advertised in terms of the load that is advertised and they do this in increments. So you do 20%, 40%, that's then testing the load that it can bear. So 20%, 40%, 60%, 100% they let it run for 30 minutes and then they check for any leaking of air or fuel and then they check the amps and the voltage and other measurements and then this is all measured and checked by quality assurance and quality control and if it's all okay at max load then it goes then to the soundproofing stage and then after that it's done. Yeah.

Production Assembly - ERP ( System ): 
So yeah now we're talking about the production assembly we've got from the system perspective which is ERP. So they get a production advice twice a week so on a Monday to Wednesday and Thursday to Saturday and that's going to have the product name, the unit and your marks and the system generated number so it will arrive one and when I say arrive it's the document that arrives one week in advance so that they have enough time to finish all jobs that stays one stage two. They request so you know things like the canopy soundproofing and the engine step three and there are three lines like production lines so there's A to B which is for small canopies and two of those small canopies and then there's one big engine line and each line will get a copy so that they know what to expect for the next week and then a forklift guy of the forklift guy is then given also a forklift so he knows what he needs to be moving. Another step three and then step four. During the following week the items are received physically and they are also added to the ERP system so stock transfer request note is essentially the proof that the items have been received from the store to the production assembly lines. Then step five the job card is raised once the work starts and this job card is filled each stage by the person who is doing the task to test them and then it goes to the store and then like the job card starts. Step six you have internal items/materials used that's a plan for a job on systems based on the generator capacity when the generator returns and the plan is essentially a bill of material that's just an interchangeable word we've been using bill of material earlier in this so just call it bill of material and that plan is essentially like what we have and what is needed so that they can make everything. Then seven after the issue the job card is closed and then eight the job card is transferred to the person who gave the production advice plus the delivery generator physically to that person and that is essentially the process from the system point of view.

Maintenance: 
So now we're talking about the maintenance department within the steel fabrication unit. And what they are maintaining is the CNC and the NC machines, the computerized numeric control machines and numeric control. So that's the fiber laser, the plasma shearing machine, bending machine, rolling machine, welding machine, drilling machine, grinding machine, punching machine, and each of these all have like a software, it's generally CADMA, CADMA, ProNest, PRONest, or LAMTEK, L-A-M-T-E-K, I believe it's well, and generally, you know, in the process that generally happens as things are going through this, production space is like, there's cuttings, then there's shearings, then there's bendings, then there's weldings, then there's the oven. And there's like two types of maintenance. The preventative, which is where you avoid or reduce upcoming faults, has like greasing and dusting things, avoid water damage and monitoring hazards, and they have corrective, which is more expensive and involves changing parts. They also install repair and service machines in that department. One week in advance, they try to ask for oil, and spare parts are kept in the store, so they have them on hand. Servicing materials need to be requested on the ERP, and then they have a note here about installation, which is they have to account for the space required to avoid hazard, and then also the items needed, and those requested for the ERP, and then there's just day-to-day stuff that is added to the manager's own Excel that aren't on the ERP. And in terms of how the ERP is running or maintenance, is that they check the store for a query, and then it's delivered with a way bill plus a signature, and that's essentially it.


Store: 

So now we're going to look at a different department. This is the store. The store manager's generators, CKD, which is completely knocked down, raw material and finished goods. CKD is like the engine for the generators and the alternator and they're separate at the time. So what happens is they receive a container. Right, because what they're doing is they're assembling overseas deliveries. So they receive a container and it's sent to assembly. And then they add components and accessories to put together. So you know, the control banner, soundproofing, things like that. The banners are also made there and they also make things like crossbar, rubber mounting and foam. Anyway, after this, they go through a quality check, which is with control and assurance. And then it eventually comes back as finished goods and then it is transferred to a branch, which is where a request is made from the store on the ERP. Or it goes to final delivery and that's delivery order and also happens on the ERP. And then wherever it goes to, they need to send back an acknowledgement copy that the customer has received, or the branch or division or whoever it is has received the finished goods.

Something else about the store is obviously the location of the customer matters. So let's say a customer comes to the store in Ikeja, but they live in Port Harcourt, so PH. Then Ikeja would assign to PH. Yeah, and there are seven branches. Ikeja, Lekki, VI, Abuja, Kano, Apapa and PH Port Harcourt. The next thing is that QC, that's quality control, before it arrives at the store is done. So from production, even before it arrives at the store, they also do some quality control. But then quality assurance works during the production process to see that everything is going smoothly. In terms of the products, there is a Perkins generator, there's a York generator and there's the really big one which is called NTU. For York, there is a blue line or black and there's just called Yorks. And York is specifically the company's kind of private gem. They like that one a lot. And they have Perkins and NTU and these are more like global brands that more people know. And generally they are both diesel and gas generators.

Next we have just a small note that I have here which is that email and PDF requests are generated by the ERP. And they have to be generated by an authorized person, like a manager. And what happens is that they then call up the store and so managers as well can just like call up the store and ask like, can you reserve some stock? Like some of these generators. And they do this when there's a limited quantity to avoid overbooking of stock. Next we have about returns. So returning of like generators. So if it's commercial, then the MD needs to approve. But if it's under warranty, then they send out people to do an assessment report. And sales keeps a record of what is returned and why. Because usually the customer complains to sales instead of customer service. That's the reason why sales ends up doing it. So yeah.

Next we have some comments about improvements. I managed to ask about improvements. So sales, not just sales. There's an issue where sales will say that they want a manual or a picture for a generator. This is from the store manager. The issue here is that the sales people seem unaware of the product details. They should see from A to Z to understand; there should be ample sales training. They don't seem to have knowledge of the product's specifications.

The next issue is that there's not enough big generator storage space. They'll make a bunch of generators for a big project, and then that person doesn't pay and organize delivery to receive the product. They're just sitting in the store. This slows down production, reducing the amount of time they have for the rest of the year to make more money. They're not charging a storage fee. They have to spend money on fuel and labor for relocation and moving around these goods. Projects using the facility as storage isn't good. You can't have new projects until storage space frees up. Sometimes they load slowly which also slows things down. They don't have a storage fee as mentioned before.

Another point is that required information is not available for sales. Pictures and pricing aren't readily available for quick reference. The sales people just don't know. The technical data sheet is not on ERP. It has to be added by an authorized person. There's no authorization for posting things to the ERP. The store manager would like to approve requests before they're added to the ERP. Sometimes he misses stuff and that causes more problems.

He also thinks the acknowledged run copy should be uploaded to the ERP. A file was kept in Excel, but there's nothing else. There should be a delivery waybill that links to the invoice to acknowledge run copy, which isn't there. You can't easily see that in the ERP. There's no place in the ERP to see the waybill acknowledgement copy from the customer.

He believes the process is slower to be watched from production to store. The communication between sales and the store that generates the sales isn't always clear. In terms of understanding what's going on, maybe you can't track the entire funnel but you should be able to track quotations. The generation of invoices should be tracked. Some people skip things and just do verbal. He says it's too expensive and I said so you don't even. This addresses that you won't see the drop off before a quotation because it's just verbal.

The next point is to make it easier for people to log quotations and just log leads. This would help identify things like fastest paying customer, highest paying customer. We can segment our users better.

Another thing I want to say as well is that in terms of the process you have a job order can come from the store like the customer order and then they send a request to the steel factory one week in advance and they request the engine from New store or from the like main factory in City that's just so that they can be you know ahead of ahead of time.


Generator Operations: 
Now I'm going to talk about generator operations. So this is generator operations. So first of all, for a new generator, a quotation. And the quotation is made and the client is charged after an inspection is done. So this is like looking after like servicing generators. So the client is charged with the inspection and only after the client has paid, then the team goes out to check it. And obviously this is provided that there's not something that's already included in their warranty or their package like that. This is out of that scope. Anyway, so for the team to go out, they've raised an appointment or what's also called a job order. And you can tell someone like what package they're on because in their like customer ID on the ERP, they'll have WCNT in their name, which stands for workshop contract. This is essentially a maintenance contract. Generally speaking, on maintenance contract, you're going to have six services, which is going to give you like two air filters, a flashing radiator. Now, you have what's called a PMR, which is a preventative maintenance report. A physical is printed of this form and it's filled out and then someone types in all the written notes into the ERP system. That's just a process that they have. A job card being raised in this instance refers to repair and servicing. So anything that requires collection of materials from the store is going to need a job card. An AMC is an annual maintenance contract and that is like six services and it generally lasts like 12 months. But it can happen faster depending on... Yeah, it depends on how long or how intensely you're running your generator. Regarding the appointment, if a customer is near another branch, then the job to be done will be assigned to the branch that is nearby. So in terms of not having a high level process, they have a call and then they get a quote from doing an inspection. So they send people to inspect. Then they have a quotation. There's a quotation and then it's paid for. And then if she wants it paid, it's assigned to somewhere else or that department or that branch rather will raise an appointment. And then the inspection is carried out and the report is generated by the team. And then they prepare the repair quotation and then that is paid and then they will share evidence, like the client share evidence or payment. And of course, just also that report is the PMR that they're generating. Anyways, after it's paid and they share evidence, then the accounts team will confirm and post to the customer's VIP account so they can see that they've paid and the money they receive. Then an appointment is raised for the paid job and then a job card plus a MRS, a material request to store is created and also a pro forma invoice or a PFR is assigned. Then a technician will go to the store, the material will be issued at the store for them and then they assign technicians to go into the field or go into the field. Then once the job is done and completed, they will produce a job completion report and add that to the ERP system and then the job card is closed and the invoice is generated. Sometimes there's an optional servicing report that has to be generated if there's more to be done at the inspection, like there's more than what they've bought. Also, if a branch is assigned a job because they are close away to where the customer is, that branch will have to make their own job card and PFR. Continuing on, so just a bit about the warranties. So 3,500 to 4,500 hours is generally the warranty cover for a York and Perkins. For a York it's four years. The runtime is basically what those hours are and that can be seen on the screen on the control panel screen. So essentially what happens is a visitor is done, a report is made, a visitor is done to the client's like generator or a report is generated. Then they raise a warranty job and then they do the job. Every job is free and closed to the person who's already got it covered. Every job will have to have an appointment. Sometimes the engine number or the alternator number are added incorrectly so that's something that they have to bear in mind. Generally speaking, the process is like job, appointment, claim for a warranty specifically is what I'm talking about. The date of delivery and the date of failure is also captured and on the contract, the rider is checked proactively to find out if the generator needs to be serviced. So these are people that like, if you're on a contract, there's people that will go around and just check like, oh, does your generator work well? Is everything okay? That's for like normal contracts. And yeah, that is the end of generator operations.

Overhauling: 
Okay, so next one I'll talk about overhauling, which refers to jobs that are essentially past repair. This is the actual team that will dismantle generators or Gensets. Gensets or generators are also interchangeable terms. So overhauling, warranty, rental, sales return, upgrading, customer repair, that's all of the stuff at the overhauling department. And then it looks at all overhauling regardless of location happened in Kezia in T-Land. Also, they are a department that doesn't have a store. They have what's referred to as an ERP store or storage. Also customer repair is like minor repair and replacement. It's not a big repair. That's what customer repair refers to. They obviously service all of the seven branches and appointments must get a job issued from the branch closest to the customer so they can keep track of interactions. That way you can receive essentially if the, yeah, you just keep track of the interactions so like, you know, if the customer, like, if you receive an appointment but the customer didn't want to continue, like, that's understood. It's not just a random, everything happening at a random time, not a random time, sorry, everyone, everything happening in a, everything happening in a way that you don't need to track off the last person to interact with the customer. In terms of the payment methods, you can get it on credit, you can get it for free, if managed and approved and then there's overhauling. In employment, you have inspection, you have troubleshoot, you have paint and body work. And that's just generally like how they categorize the appointment in terms of what is needed. As we've spoken about before, MRS is a material request from the store and they also have FSR, which is a field service report, or also called a PMR in the ERP, which we already know is the preventive maintenance report. At a high level as well, just so you know's kind of a good job in an email, an appointment, an inspection, then a PFI an invoice, a PFR, then an MRS material request from the store, then a field service report, and they close the job and they do the PMR count and then invoice it. They try to stick to appointment based on the work specification, but if there are a few issues found, then they try to communicate with the customer to figure out what can be done. Regarding the job card, the job card in this case is a list of items to be used for servicing, repair and overhauling. They are then pay-advised via cash or credit, and then next, they'll receive a PFR, which is added to the job card, which gives total cost. Overhauling gets customers from branches, so the overhauling department themselves, they don't have a sales team that goes out and is looking for sales to close. Regarding negotiation, customers negotiate the quoted price. If the quote doesn't cover the job or the PFR pro-forma invoice cost, then the branch is contacted and the management is also contacted where the person who is in charge of the ERP can now apply a discount if management approves. Otherwise, the ERP won't allow you to save a PFR or a job where the cost is greater than quoted. This is not allowed because then money would be seen to be lost. Next, we have the appointment number to PMR, so a report of what was done, including changes, like more work that originally was done, is added to the PMR, and the appointment number is also added to the PMR. After the job card is closed, the PMR is sent to account and invoicing is done, and this is also ready to double check if the services were rendered. In the case of overhauling, CKD refers to engine only, and Genset refers to the generator as a whole. Obviously by generator as a whole, that's the engine and the alternator. Regarding the upgrading or sales return, what happens is a refurbish or when they're refurbishing or restoring a used generator due to a mismatch of load or capacity or they need to increase the capacity, you take back the old generator, but there has to be a proof by management. What they do is they need to check the physical state of the generator and what they do is they generate a Genset or a generator assessment report before sailing the generator back, so before they physically have it, they have to create the report. Looking at things like the parts, the components present, the customer, what they're complaining about, and what the job tasks are. And then it goes to Newland Warehouse Store, which is where the generators are for assembly. A report is given by a mail and also a generator code is given and the engines requested from the new store are given. The way that they get the engines from the new store, they have to do a stock transfer request and that leads to a stock issue when the new land gives them the new engine so they can receive it. And then a stock receipt is generated when the engine is received and also the stock receipt is when the number on the received Genset matches on the ERP on the stock issue because again you have to link everything up so that there's no random item that goes missing. Then another definition is defined which is customer name, so they have to define, sorry, the customer name, the generator location of the engine. So as you were saying before, you've got an appointment at JobCard and MRS. The appointment doesn't have any cost if it's internal work. Also, quality assurance must be informed to verify that the good is new when they're doing the upgrading, otherwise the E-Cart 30 upgraded something. And also quality inspection of water is generated. The JobCard request is based on the quality and inspection of water suggestion that comes from the QA. And if a complete engine/alternator is required then I'd probably have to inform management of the managing director. Then also if QA does find, sorry, when QA does a final inspection they see if the repair/upgraded generator they're getting is like previously repaired, like, sorry, not previously repaired if it like passes. So you do a final inspection on a repair/upgraded generator and QA will check if it passes their test. And if it does they get like QC passed. After QC passed you then have a PMR generated and then there is a request from Material Store for the new generator from the overhauling warehouse. Because remember, overhauling doesn't have like a store, they're like a warehouse and they have an ERP store so it's slightly different. Anyway, then overhauling warehouse will issue the generator set and then upon receiving the generator set the Material Store will give a stock receipt and then a PMR is generated and then they close the JobCard. The PMR plus the JobCard are sent to accounts and then an invoice is generated and you're starting to understand the general process. 

Generator Warranty: 

Ok, so now we're talking about generator warranty. Still kind of handled by like, I guess it's between overhauling and operations really. As we were saying before, like 3500 to like 4500 for York is the runtime hours and then for Perkins it's 1000 hours. Generally speaking, overhauling doesn't have direct communication with the customer, it would be like overhauling to operations to the customer. And inspection is raised for operations, then the inspection on warranty, but an inspection on warranty doesn't actually always mean a repair on warranty. If they find like a manufacturing default or, you know, they have to basically find out is it a manufacturing detail that the customer's for and will the scope of warranty cover it. So you have the inspection from the inspection, you then have the PMR with a root cause analysis that is done by the warranty team and the warranty team, sorry, it's sent to the warranty team, the PMR with the root cause analysis, sent to the warranty team and then the warranty team will accept or decline whether it's covered or not by warranty. Now in-house, so like generators are actually owned by the company, there's a format for the engine numbers that have a warranty that's just a side note, but anyway after each side of it's covered or not by warranty then an appointment is raised with that special or specific engine number and then a warranty claim form puts an official document on email, which contains like what isd and how many to like service the generator and then essentially you see if it's accepted or not by the customer and then you get an email response. If it's approved then a job card is raised and then they do a material request from store, the MRS and then it's added to a physical store for the technician to then use the materials and then log those, their usage and then the whole fixing of the unit and then they transfer and sorry an email sent to transfer and operations and then generally speaking the fixed product or generator is delivered to the customer but when it's telecoms they tend to pick it up themselves. After that has happened there's then a PMR and then you close the job card and then that PMR job card is sent to account and then it invoices the generator. That like PMR closes the job card, PMR plus job card is sent to account and invoices the generator is like a very common flow of the generator that I've seen. Then generally speaking your warranty is going to probably be the generator and the part claims can be raised for defected new parts also. Then there's this thing called fixed asset which is like company houses, branches but like on warranty and essentially if the company replaces a customer's engine like an old one then that old one becomes a fixed asset of the company's or if there's like something that can't be fixed then it's like it's just used at the work job so they don't just have to throw it away. In terms of like a high level process you have an inspection request from operations that's like an email from a branch and then an appointment is raised which is optional because sometimes you don't really need to raise an appointment if it's like for an internal inspection. When the inspection happens a PMR of like what will be done and what is covered is generated then the appointment to go and visit and to do the job is raised. Then a job card is raised, the material pressure in the store is raised, then a report and completion note is created and that's emailed to the branch plus also transport division and also the installation division and you know that's where you can talk about whether you're going to pick up the generator or not. Then they add a physical PMR detail to the ERP so that everything is like accounted for on the system and then again as we know the job card plus the PMR is sent to account and then invoicing happens. Also free jobs don't equal supplementary so if an item is needed but that's not part of the original request for a quotation then that counts as supplementary and that's not necessarily going to be free. Supplementary is only for paid stuff so that's like cash, credit and overhauling because it's not accounted for and they have to pay. Also when we request for parts you sometimes send an MPSD to the steel factory and that's essentially like finished goods and raw materials or for spare parts from assembly. This MPSD is for things like cables and control panels, then you have canopies which is body parts, you have assembly where you request things like sound proofing, cold end and those assembly things come from the new install and then from the steel factory you request things like frames, exhaust pipes and they follow up with those people so MPSD, canopy, assembly, steel factory, what are the status of those items and have a point to make that you cannot request parts in an appointment for inspection. Next we're coming on to telecom projects department so these are like your big telecoms and other really big products and at a high level the process is that you get an email from telecoms then you raise a PMR of what the problem was that was found in the history because obviously the different process like telecoms it has to be out all the time so that would be very quick. Then you raise an appointment for inspection then you do the inspection on credit on priority offer free, you do an inspection report then you raise an appointment for a repair job and then you do the appointment again on credit warranty or free and you raise the job card, you do the PFI but you don't raise a PFI if it's free and then you raise the material request from store the MRR then you do the PMR then you close the job card and then again you have the PMR plus the job card sent to account and then they do the invoicing. Next we are talking about rentals so if a generator has an issue in preliminary inspection it is brought to overhauling and that's where like body works which is like painting and fixing the soundproofing is done. The store for rentals is at a place called Wawa in Karameh cities or Wawa W-A-W-A Karameh cities K-A-R-M-E-H in the city. Rental jobs are part of fixed assets because they are still owned by the company but they are different from third party because sorry but they are different because third party is renting so they are not exactly a fixed asset. Again a high level process, it's the same process as free jobs so it's an appointment, a job card, then an MRR as material request from store then a PMR report sent by email is added to the ERP then they close the job card and send the PMR plus the job card to account for invoicing. Now another note, if a generator is having an issue from a rental client site then a report is needed from operations management and that is which branch is close enough to service the generator because you need to figure out quickly what's happening. Next we'll move into independent power projects or GAS IPP is what independent power projects stands for. The way that they kind of look at this is that procurement is anything outside of Nigeria and then purchase is anything fact in Nigeria. This section is mainly about NTU generators which is a German brand that's also for the new AR in Karameh City which is the York Blue Line. They have one diesel generator, the NTU is like 1,500 kVAs to like 2,000 kVAs which is very large projects because NTU is very sensitive in terms of all the time procurement doesn't need a request to buy the parts that are needed and because they're very specific parts you need to like just get them in quickly into the country, into Nigeria so however purchase when it's found in Nigeria does require a request. If we don't do maintenance which is like top or complete overhauling top is just the top repair so dismantling where it was at the top for these types of projects with IPP and GAS between 15 to 20,000 hours is when they require complete overhauling and it has you have to be you have to know when the service is happening because you have to request in advance because otherwise if like company that I work for that I'm doing this for a report for doesn't have the stock there's a problem to use like they have custom parts and it's very it's different from generator to generator and from a high level again you get an email for the top most generator for the next complete overhauling so it's all that okay this is the generator that needs the next overhauling for like NTU or IPP/GAS and then the technical manager will request the part manual and the manager will select the parts needed for that particular job and they log the parts and the quantity and excel into that email to a gas division for procurement. The gas division will then check the availability of material on the ERP and then they will email an email to procurement about unav will check the store if the item is not added to the store or that they need to add that item to the store will division to the procurement division because of course this is for something outside of Nigeria as we said before and then you know the item will be ordered and it becomes available and the generator will decide which is due for overhauling and then the free IPP appointment is requested a job card based on overhauling plus parts is raised and a material request from store is raised, a PMR is raised and added to the ERP then they close the job and they send that PMR plus the job card to account and it once is generated. A bit more about that point specifically overhauling is hard to know what you find while doing the dismantling for such like large things and so extra parts are usually needed with gas complete the job at the electricity like wiring stage to answer like any questions to do a complete service. Yeah and also gas is done like there's a gas generator in Karameh City and also at the steel factory. Thank you.

Next, we just have some other notes. So this is about the store that the inspect generators when they're at the workshop with the mechanics. This is a store for like overhauling and what they do is they comment on what they can physically see with they themselves or not. The mechanics, the guys that are at the overhauling like warehouse. They go to collect parts that have been requested and then someone else will check what they bought is what was requested. They then take those parts to the workshop and do like testing and you know they check like wear and tear. They're also in charge of everything that is in the store and on site because obviously they're not on the same kind of store they're just like in a warehouse. They call it store for overhauling but it's actually warehouse. I think maybe that's the distinction should be. When I'm talking about the overhauling store, it's actually the overhauling warehouse and they do a stock count for the items that are in the whole workshop. So at a high level they receive a generator. They get an appointment from a customer. They list the parts that they need with the technician. They then email the customer through the ops team. The ops team sends the appointment and then the job request is raised with the items plus a quote. The customer accepts all the clients and the technician will accept all the clients that quote plus the job request. Then if that's good, the PMR is raised and that's sent to the ops team. Then they generate a PFI for the totals. Obviously right now it's open at like 16 again. It's still overhauling. They generate an event to after the PMR is raised in the sense that the ops team generate a PFI for the totals. Then they send it to the customer who then agrees or denies or negotiates. Once that's good, then the store team uses the job appointment to create the job card based on the parts confirmed by the mechanic. From there, material request from the store and MRS is raised and that is forwarded to accounts to confirm that the PFI has been paid. Then they collect parts from the head office, central store. If there's any issues, they communicate that items are not available. Then they add these to the workshop store and they check the MRS for overhauling and the items are registered to what's called a book list. They're the items that are added to the register book list. Then the head office workshop issue shows what is available from request that they gave from the MRS. Then they give in step by step to the technicians as and when they need the items so they can complete the job. Then the PMR, that's the preventive maintenance report, is sent to ops. Then they request a vehicle to deliver the product, the generator back to the customer and then a waybill, which is like a delivery note, is sent with the appointment and on the sign. That is that.


Transport/Logistics: 
Okay, so now we are addressing the transport or logistics part of the business. They operate at the group level, doing all of the transport and logistics for all of the divisions, not just for one space. This includes between branches, deliveries to customers, and transport for events that different divisions are doing.

Okay, so now we are addressing the transport or logistics part of the business. Yeah, a bit about them. They operate at the group level, so they are doing all of the transport and logistics for all of the divisions, not just for one space, like they're doing it for everyone. So, you know, between branches, deliveries to customers, any other random thing, delivery for or transport for events as well that different divisions are doing. So, these are the notes, this is the note that I had. And there's different people, so that's why it might seem a bit muddled. So, you have the gate papers, which a driver needs to get in and out of, like, the head office. They have an individual one that they present, it's not like a list that someone holds. And generally speaking, when it comes to reports, both a driver and an inspector, so the inspection report, so you have this handover when a driver is giving back the vehicle that they gave, and that handover is for regarding the mechanical condition. So, you have the wheels, plus the expiry date, tools that will with the vehicle, so like the fire extinguisher, the jacks, the wheel, the spare tire, and its condition. If it says bad, then if they call it bad, then it needs a replacement. Then there's also the documentation, so the hackney permit, the driving license, etc. The commercial operating document, and so on. Also, the driver will be noted with the condition of the car, and then the driver receiving will sign. And then in the next handover, it can be compared to the old reports, to the new reports we conducted, and this encourages drivers to proactively self-report to avoid being queried. So, pictures are taken of the vehicles. Another point is that there are speed limit trackers on the all of the cars, and there's also a local government area, LGA document, which is one of the local government documents that they also do is the very worthiness. Anyway, moving on, if they think something is needed, then a request from MRS or Material Request from Store is done, and if that material isn't available, then they do a purchase order. There's also LASSA documents LASSA that covers the company's brand logo, stage, carriage, and mid-year. Moving on, regarding the speed limit, they can't go over 90km/h, and that traffic is in all of the cars. The next point I want to talk about is the job card. So every car pickup by a commercial vehicle has a job card, and the job card is raised for any complaint, and when it is raised, they detail the issue, and then the workshop will check and advise. Even a driver complaint works observation via mechanic, then there will be people that will sign this job card, which will be the driver and the transport manager, and then the repairs require details. This will require changing in store. If it's changing in store, then MRS is raised, but if it's not available on ground, then, as I said before, a purchase order is raised, and the workshop manager signs the purchase order, or the P.O. The transport manager will sign for approval or repairs, and approval because there could be something that doesn't need purchasing, but can be swapped, so there is the option to try and save costs, which is quite smart. Moving on to the next point, there is a system for tracking and document renewal, so it's like an Excel that is color coded for things that are upcoming. Some drivers mix, and this is what I was told, so some drivers mix expired and bad end documents. They've got them in trouble with road safety, so now driver literacy is like looking into, because it's causing them to mix up the documents that they present, because they think that they shouldn't throw out any oil paper, so they're doing trainings to avoid that. The P.O. is officially called a purchase requisition, and as I said before, P.O. is raised, and then the manager offers it, and then it's automatically activated by the department, and that department will notify the order as being collected. When they do an MRS, they do hard copies in the logistics and transport division. They also issue fuel vouchers, which have three parts to them, a green, a white, and a pink, and a pink is kept by the driver. What they also do regarding fuel is that they calculate consumption, plus an extra, something like a small amount extra, and you can issue a fuel tank if needed, and then you can also be given, so you can issue so that they have a full tank, and then you can also give them cash for fuel outside once the tank is done, and then they can have an extension, so they can buy fuel, and they can give an invoice or proof of buying, and they can be reimbursed. Next we're talking about the transport assignment, so the assignment vehicle and the driver, there's a person who specifically does this, there's a person who's specifically does this, and that person, as in, specifically matches the driver to a vehicle for adults, we have to have a good relationship and understand all the drivers and the vehicles that they are, so they need to both know the condition of the vehicles and the competence of the drivers, there's approximately like 500 drivers, and there's a number of places that they're having to go, just internally, it's Vi Lecky, the Vi showroom, Iqoyi Apapa, head office, Newland, T-Land, Karang City, Redeem site, Shagamu gas, Ibadon, PH, Buja, Kanun, some of those are basically all the branches and other sites that are internal, after they're given the car, follow-ups are done, and there's also a system called HCL track dot net, which is a tracking system for all of the vehicles, and it has color coded systems, yellow is when it's momentarily stopped, blue is when it's moving, and red is when it's stopped, or the device is bad, but that system uses network, so sometimes you need to call in, and you can have the fact that it can look at the ignition status and where it's on or off, like the engine, then it can see the amount of time it's stopped for, and it can also see that the visit was to an unauthorized site, furthermore, if there's an issue on road, and phones are down, and you need to be called, and they can get sent to the location on this HCL track dot net, so that's quite useful, as I've already said before, there's a speed limit device, pick up and trucks will have that inside of them, and if the ignition's on, then the track will make a sound, so it's very clear that it's working, anything else is going on, from the head off of what they can also issue, in terms of fuels and oil, they can also give diesel, they can give BMS, they can also give engine oil. In terms of operations, you've got servicing, you've got IPP, you've got maintenance, you've got installation, and all of these require drivers and transport, and they have vehicles that are needed for maintenance, and some monitors at the workshop are when the repairs are taking place, with those you need to have enough cars that are available, so, you know, you assign, if it's taking too long, for anything that's taking too long, you assign another vehicle for a driver or a replacement, and the driver gets charged, for example, the driver has no seatbelt, and that would be there for, and not the technician that was travelling with them, so you have the car, the driver, and the technician, not all the time, but for specific things, you have both. And you have expenses, so payment for a position from, you know, things like an airport tour, and there's a night allowance also that you give to the driver, so what I've just spoken about is just some of the things in terms of giving drivers money, if there's replacement needed for a car or a driver, and also the other expenses that are covered, so like they get an allowance, and then there's again an airport tour. I've already spoken about the Excel for like tracking documentation, so there's an Excel colour code, it's by a way for each vehicle dock, so what they do is they create, like this thing for the expiry, which document, and also the price for the renewal, and it also has the destination of the vehicle, like you know, a recent store, VI, Lekki, servicing, whatever, and then, yeah, servicing is like ops or overhauling on maintenance, like where it's going. Anyway, so vehicle monitoring, we'll now talk about vehicle monitoring, you have on the screen for like how they look at it, you have the make and the registration number, you also have the license, the insurance, sorry, this isn't on the screen for tracking, this is like in the documentation, so you have, sorry, this is in the Excel, in the Excel you have the make with the registration number, then you have the vehicle license, expiry date, insurance, and the road warranty, you have the hacking permit... these are like the dates that you have, you have the hacking permit date. you have the vehicle license, expiry date, insurance, expiry date, road warranty, expiry date, hacking permit, the MOTF is a bike, the OGS HDP, which is for all-day stay, heavy duty, expiry date, and the Tipper, and the PXT, and the OGS, the MOT is a bike. and truck permit, expiry date. a budget, canoe, and PH have their own transport team, so they have separate things to this office that I am talking about, but this office is still a service, it's still the main one that services all of the others. and I think at some point earlier I said MPSD, I was in trouble, but it was MPSD, which stands for the Mikano Panel Service Department, so they specifically do panels. another definition for CMR, which is like the police, motor, registering, that's for new registered vehicles, but they now use the EMC, but there's been an issue of this, I couldn't stop as of recently. then some other documents you have, a plate number allocation, which is allocated once, approval ownership, which is yearly, preferable by the state inspection, which is given a pass mark, road weariness certificate, the pass mark is the road weariness certificate, that's what the legal state prefers, and then there's a commercial, which is required every six months, but there's a private vehicle, that's for the road weariness, the road weariness for a commercial is every six months, and the road weariness for a private vehicle, once a year, plus, there's that computerized note that you'll get when you do, you get the pass mark, you get a plain piece of paper, and you also get a computerized note.

Okay, so moving on, we're now talking in terms of the delivery of generators. They have some terms where project is for the telecom industry and delivery is usually for a bank. So the process is that they receive a mail from sales and then they do a delivery order. The delivery order is generated by the ERP. Then they provide the driver with the details and they collect the registration name, contact and status. And the status is what, like, is being delivered. They then confirm the customer, like, is it okay to deliver and then you get the customer's obviously phone number. Then they collect whatever it is from the store and they load the truck. And the driver calls the customer and stays in contact with them and then the customer will now sign and date the waybill, which is the delivery note to show that they received it return, the driver will have a white pink waybill. So two waybills. They have a white one and a pink one together and each truck file has a copy of a waybill for all of the deliveries that that truck has done. If another branch has a client in Lagos, for example, then they will align with the Lagos branch for delivery and Lagos gets the delivery mail order and then the generated PDF is sent by the sales department. Also, they have a delivery order spreadsheet of all of the clients who have received a delivery. So all of the clients who have received the delivery, so that's the driver, the product and also the rate at which they charge that person for the delivery. So generally at a high level, you've got a request from a branch, the store receives the order, the store sends the logistics, and then the sister company is what delivers the generators. Some more notes. One is delivery. So when delivering, drivers can be given cash, especially for the delivery outside of Lagos, like road expenses, or a night allowance for the driver. It will be like 10,000 Naira for the motor boy who's usually the person with him, it will be like 8,000 Naira and that's for like hotel, for both of them, like hotel and food. In some cases, whether in an area not paid for, they have to determine ahead who's going to pay, essentially for, it's called community settlement, which is basically people on the road that are blocking and they demand money. So what will happen is they'll call the manager as soon as an email will be sent requesting approval. Sometimes police can be asked to help to get the vehicle through to delivery. If the generator that they're doing something for, it's hard to access like the client wants, they say they're picking up the generator and it's hard to access additional people arranged for they were usually like people in the local area, just like they find people. There are many different parts in logistics, this is a comment that was made, there are many different parts in logistics. Communication with Nigerian drivers, like they need to be controlled online, it's quite difficult to get things going. Next, we're going to talk about some of the notes I made from another person in logistics who addresses the administrative issues. So the addressing issues for driver behavior, approving leave, organizing, so that the company isn't short-staffed, so that not everyone is like leave at the same time, because generally you get a leave a year after you were like signed on. And being compliant, they try to focus on being compliant with the ISO, standard organization of Nigerian compliance for quality and quantity of work. Also they view the recruitment of drivers, so making sure they're able to read and write, so that we don't have this issue, or so that there's this reduced issues with the police because they don't really understand and they can't defend themselves, because before police would write, like police would report to them, they can say anything. The logistics department has a questionnaire, they have a questionnaire for the recruitment, they also have a driving test to see how they drive, they collect a license, a Lagos license and etc. They also do an oral test about the person's knowledge of driving, and if they pass they need to transport manager. And then they also send, if they pass that they send a document to HR, HR would invite them for a medical test, and then they will also fill out e-commerce forms, and then the CSO or risk manager does a background check on them, if they pass that and they get an employment letter, and then they check the papers on the admin system, so that there's the right document to send to the right department for wherever that driver is going to be assigned to, and then the document is signed by the company and sent to the right department. After that the safety department does an overview induction, and also there's an internal induction started for logistics, and then the driver is then sent to the location where everything needs to be, and that's the overall high level of things that happen. Next we have about accidents and reports, so a photo is taken as evidence by the driver and a written account is taken by the driver of the event. If it was the driver's fault, if the person who pays what initially the company will pay him, and the driver will be surcharged as S-U-R-C-H-A-R-G-E-D, they will be surcharged later, and that's when they fill out a surcharge form, and then it's carried out and deducted from their account. We also have an incident report which will be filled out in an incident involving a vehicle, and it happens and is put in the vehicle like folder or binder. Then you also have a query which is where you get a call-up for bad behavior, you get a verbal warning, and you also have a more serious warning, where you're then sent to admin, you get a warning letter. You also have a staff movement form, so that's from one department to another, in this case the old and new manager will sign, and then it's sent to the administrator and then it's then affected, and then they're given to the driver so that he knows where he should go. You also have a requisition form which is for drivers, all documents like, sorry, a requisition form is for new drivers, and it's all the documents sent, like the CV that are sent to HR for new staff or new drivers, and then they also have an exit interview form to monitor those leaving.

Okay, and last, this is the notes from where I was talking to the head of transport. So, yeah, he gave me like a bit of an overview in terms of the people. I don't think we need to go into the overview of like the different roles, really, because in actuality we didn't have that for all of the office, and I don't think it's needed to know the roles as long as we know the tasks that the department is filling out, so I'll move past those parts of the notes, but generally speaking, right, but there's like a workshop flow which is a driver, then there's a complaint which causes a job card to be raised, and then you have the workshop looks at whatever it is, you've approved the client, and then they raise an MRS or a purchase order, and then, yeah, we know the process after that in terms of getting it fulfilled and charging it to a right department. He also told me that the workshop mechanics have a three-day trial to decide whether they should just stay at the company or not when they first join. They are, of course, compensated for this. There's also a six-month probation in which time they can be terminated on the spot. At the time of when I spoke to him, there was roughly 460 vehicles give or take being managed, and of those 460, maybe 300 plus in Lagos. Next note is that there are tasks that aren't deliveries that are needed. So they might need what's called a HYAB car for generated construction because there's a car that can do loading. So what will happen is they'll communicate with the other branch to say, hey guys, you need any help. Sorry, is there any help needed or stuff from head office in which case? Because they have someone going there soon, like to another place. And also, it's the same for coming back. So that's how they make good use of the cars that are going far out in time. They're like, oh, okay, we're going this way. Do you need anything brought from us or anything you want us to bring back? Also, if you're route planning to estimate fuel, and then they give an amount extra just in case, there's also a monthly allocation and management approval terms of fuel. I asked him about the storage issue, if you have lots of generators, like getting an amount from a transport for you. And so he said that he asked the client to accept more than two at a time. But they addressed this as it arises. Also, it's more expensive to get the order in small batches because of the amount of fuel. What they can do is delay an order to align with the sale of the new order. So if they know that this person is going to say yes in three days' time, or in two days' time, but in four days' time, another order will be ready. Let's go into a similar place. They will try and delay the order so they can take them both at the same time. But if the client doesn't accept that, then they'll just have to do two deliveries. They also charge trailers to deliver to a branch, and they split the pay for the transport of that trailer. And the goods, in terms of replaying us goods, with that situation. So all branches take stock from the new land store that we've spoken about before. But he doesn't deliver half-trailers because it has a cost. So what he does is that he tries to only do full containers. So he always tries to ask the people to have enough stock or he can put together enough stock so it makes it worth it to travel with the trailer. Another note we have is that all branches get stock on trailers from new land. It's not like lots of different places. Most of the branches, if they're getting these generators via trailers coming from new land. Another note is that the sister company trailers are rented out. So there's processes where someone might request a trailer with details to a PH protocol and then it's loaded and then it's dispatched and then it's like two days and then arrives. That's generally the process. He said once delivered to for like a faraway branch or this is the thing of assigning. So let's say like a customer wants to deliver something local. So the HYAB and a butcher. So the HYAB vehicle in Abuja will do the final delivery because let's say the person's closer to Abuja than they are to Lagos or whatever. Essentially the massive vehicle won't cut all that distance but they will do a send it via the trailer and the HYAB one that can do the self lifting and all of this can then do the final delivery or the last mile delivery. So as I was saying there's a HYAB in like most of the branches. And there's a HYAB station at every branch to do the deliveries and if the HYAB at the branch cannot manage the weight of the generator then delivery will be done by whoever has the HYAB capacity, HYAB closest by. It's the same with pickups, service maintenance, stationed around branches will be fulfilled by those that are closer to where the customer is which means that there's a less of a load on fuel from like keja where the main guys are where the head office is and it's also more efficient. Regarding Karameh City there are three truck stations there and they kind of move back and forth between Newland and Karameh City. Also, generally speaking, he said like the bulk of his operations are internal, they're not external.







# Company Operations Overview: Comprehensive Onboarding Guide

## Introduction
This guide provides an exhaustive overview of our company's key operations, including specific processes, terminology, and potent ial areas for improvement. As a new team member, understanding these intricacies will help you identify opportunities to enhance efficiency and profitability across all departments.

## Key Terminology and Acronyms
MRS (Material Request from Store): Formal request for materials needed for a job or project, initiated by the department requiring the materials.
Job Card: Document detailing work, materials, and labor required for a specific task. Created by the department initiating the job.
Way Bill: Delivery note accompanying goods in transit, detailing contents and destination. Prepared by the logistics department.
PO (Purchase Order): Official document issued by a buyer to a seller, indicating types, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services. Generated by the purchasing department.
CNC (Computer Numerical Control): Automated control of machining tools by a computer, used in the production process.
NC (Numerical Control): Automated operation of machines by programmed commands, a precursor to CNC.
ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning): Integrated management of main business processes, often in real-time, used across all departments.
FSR (Field Service Report): Document detailing work performed at a customer's location, completed by the technician on-site.
PMR (Preventive Maintenance Report): Report outlining routine maintenance activities performed to prevent equipment failure, completed by the maintenance team.
AMC (Annual Maintenance Contract): Yearly contract for regular maintenance services, managed by the service department.
CKD (Complete Knock Down): Complete kit needed to assemble a product, typically used in the production process.
IPP (Independent Power Plant): Facility that generates electricity for sale to utilities and end-users, a type of project the company may work on.
COMAP: Brand of generator control systems used in the company's products.
"Raising a job": Initiating a new task or project in the company's workflow system, typically done by the department requesting the work.
Program: Set of instructions for CNC or NC machines to produce a specific part or product, developed by the design or production team.
Motor Boy: Assistant to the driver, often helping with loading, unloading, and other tasks during deliveries.
MPSD (Mikano Panel Service Department): Department specifically handling panel services.

## Product Types
- MTU (Motor und Turbinen Union): High-power generators for industrial applications
- York: Company's private brand of generators, including York Blue Line
- Perkins: Brand of generators and engines
- NTU: Large gas generators

## Company-wide Systems
- ERP System: Used across all departments for integrated management of business processes
- HCLTrack.net: Real-time vehicle tracking system used by the logistics department
- Excel-based Vehicle Documentation Tracking: System used to monitor expiration dates of vehicle-related documents and proactively manage renewals

## 1. Steel Factory Operations

### 1.1 Overview
- Location: Near head office on mainland of Lagos, Nigeria
- Operates at group level
- Departments: Sales, Design, Workshop (Bending, Oven, Cutting, Laser, Plasma)

### 1.2 Services
- Serves both external customers and internal divisions
- Produces standard and non-standard items

### 1.3 Production Process for Standard Items
1. Request from central store or New Land store
2. Production of stock items (e.g., vision stock, diesel tanks)
3. Weekly production and stock transfer to store

### 1.4 Production Process for Non-Standard Items
1. Email or manual request received by sales department
2. Consultation with design department
3. Drawing and feedback shared between design and sales
4. Item code generation if request approved by production manager
5. Production possibility assessment by production team
6. Store creates codes for painted and unpainted products
7. Manufacturing process:
   Cutting -> Assembly -> Painting -> Store -> Delivery

### 1.5 General Production Flow
Sales -> Design -> Sales -> CNC/NC -> Oven and Assembly -> Store -> Delivery

### 1.6 Delivery Options
- Pickup
- Delivery (some items require assembly)

### 1.7 External Customer Process
1. Customer inquiry received by sales department (walk-in, referral, WhatsApp, phone, sales outreach)
2. Quotation creation by sales team
3. Site visit and measurements by sales or technical team (if necessary)
4. Pro-forma invoice (PFI) sent with account details by sales team
5. Production advice raised by sales team
6. Design confirmation by design department
7. Production acceptance and timeline set by production team
8. Assembly defines due and finish date
9. Sales communicates with client, plans visits and deliveries

### 1.8 Non-Standard Product Process for External Customers
1. Design team consultation (mostly online)
2. Drawing creation by design team and sharing with sales
3. Client approval and costing
4. Bill of material raised by accounts department
5. PFI generated by sales and sent to client
6. Negotiation until agreement
7. Payment terms: Generally 70% advance, 30% on completion (management can approve 50/50)
8. Job raised by sales, program created by design or production team
9. New item code processed by production team
10. Manufacturing process
11. Customer pays balance
12. Invoice generated by accounts department
13. Sales order authorized by accounts department
14. Delivery order printed by sales department
15. Delivery order sent to store
16. Pickup or delivery arranged by logistics team

### 1.9 Additional Services
- Progress updates and photos for clients provided by project management team
- Job completion letter for projects issued by project management team
- Customer service follow-ups conducted by customer service department

### 1.10 Paint Types and Process
- Paint types: 905, 910, 732, anthracite light, red, black, white, signal gray
- Two-part process: Liquid paint (no oven required) and powder paint (oven required)
- Oven types: Manual oven, water oven (older type)
- Paint process: Sanding -> Chemical clean -> Hanging -> Painting -> Curing
- Unpainted items referred to as "naked"

## 2. Generator Operations

### 2.1 Quotation Process
1. Inspection done by technical team
2. Client charged for inspection by sales team
3. Technical team goes out to check after payment confirmation from accounts

### 2.2 Maintenance Contracts
- Identified by WCNT in customer ID
- Typically includes six services
- Services include air filters replacement, radiator flushing

### 2.3 Job Card Process
1. Raised for repair and servicing by service department
2. Required for any material collection from store

### 2.4 Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC)
- Six services over 12 months (can be faster based on generator usage)
- Managed by service department

### 2.5 Appointment Process
1. Call received by customer service
2. Quote provided after inspection by technical team
3. Quotation paid to accounts department
4. Appointment assigned by service coordinator (possibly to nearby branch)
5. Inspection carried out by technical team
6. Report (PMR) generated by technical team
7. Repair quotation prepared by service department
8. Payment and evidence shared with accounts department
9. Accounts confirm and post to customer's account
10. Appointment raised for paid job by service coordinator
11. Job card and Material Request to Store (MRS) created by service department
12. Pro-forma invoice assigned by accounts department
13. Technician collects material from store
14. Job completed by technical team
15. Job completion report added to ERP by technical team
16. Job card closed by service department and invoice generated by accounts department

### 2.6 Warranty Process
- Coverage: 3,500 to 4,500 hours for York and Perkins (York: 4 years)
- Process: Visit by technical team -> Report generated -> Warranty job raised by service department -> Job done by technical team

### 2.7 Generator Types and Specifications
- York: Company's private brand, includes York Blue Line
- Perkins: Brand of generators and engines
- MTU: High-power generators for industrial applications
- NTU: Large gas generators
- Diesel generators: Various sizes and models
- Soundproofing options: Soundproof, ultra-super silent

## 3. Overhauling Department

### 3.1 Responsibilities
- Dismantling generators/gensets
- Handling warranty, rental, sales return, upgrading, customer repair

### 3.2 Location
- All overhauling happens in Ikeja, T-Land

### 3.3 Overhauling Store/Warehouse
- Operates differently from other stores
- Functions as a warehouse for overhauling operations
- Manages inventory for overhauling process
- Doesn't have a physical store, uses ERP store/storage system

### 3.4 Overhauling Process
1. Appointment received from service department
2. Inspection done by overhauling team
3. Troubleshooting performed by technical specialists
4. Paint and bodywork if needed, done by dedicated team
5. Field Service Report (FSR) or Preventive Maintenance Report (PMR) generated by technical team
6. Job closed by overhauling department
7. PMR count done by quality control team
8. Invoice generated by accounts department

### 3.5 Payment Methods
- Credit (approved by finance department)
- Free (if managed and approved by management)
- Standard payment (processed by accounts department)

### 3.6 Job Card Details
- List of items for servicing, repair, and overhauling created by overhauling team
- Pay advised via cash or credit by finance department
- Pro-forma invoice (PFR) added to job card for total cost by accounts department

### 3.7 Negotiation Process
1. Customers negotiate quoted price with sales team
2. If quote doesn't cover job, branch and management contacted by sales team
3. Discounts applied if management approves
4. ERP prevents saving PFR or job where cost exceeds quote (system safeguard)

### 3.8 Overhauling for Large Generators (MTU, NTU)
- Complete overhauling required between 15,000 to 20,000 hours
- Advance planning required due to custom parts
- Process:
  1. Email received for top most generator due for overhauling
  2. Technical manager requests part manual
  3. Manager selects parts needed and logs in Excel
  4. Gas division checks availability in ERP
  5. Procurement division notified of unavailable items
  6. Items ordered and received
  7. Free IPP appointment requested
  8. Job card raised based on overhauling plus parts
  9. Material request from store raised
  10. PMR raised and added to ERP
  11. Job closed
  12. PMR and job card sent to accounts for invoicing

## 4. Transport/Logistics

### 4.1 Scope
- Operates at group level
- Handles transport for all divisions
- Manages inter-branch transfers, customer deliveries, event transport

### 4.2 Vehicle Documentation
- Gate papers for drivers issued by security department
- Inspection reports for vehicle handovers prepared by logistics team
- Documentation includes:
  * Hackney permit
  * Driving license
  * Commercial operating document
  * Vehicle license
  * Insurance
  * Road worthiness certificate
  * Local Government Area (LGA) document
- Excel-based tracking system for document expiration dates and renewal management

### 4.3 Vehicle Monitoring
- Speed limit trackers (max 90km/h) installed and monitored by logistics team
- HCLTrack.net system for real-time tracking managed by logistics department
- Color-coded tracking:
  * Yellow: Momentarily stopped
  * Blue: Moving
  * Red: Stopped or device issue
- Features:
  * Ignition status monitoring
  * Stop duration tracking
  * Unauthorized site visit detection

### 4.4 Job Card Process
1. Raised for any complaint by logistics coordinator
2. Workshop checks and advises
3. Repairs detailed by mechanics
4. Material Request from Store (MRS) raised if needed by workshop manager
5. Purchase order raised if material unavailable by purchasing department
6. Workshop manager signs purchase order
7. Transport manager approves repairs

### 4.5 Fuel Management
- Fuel vouchers issued (green, white, pink copies) by logistics department
- Consumption calculated plus extra by fleet management team
- Cash provided for additional fuel if needed, approved by finance department

### 4.6 Driver Assignment
- Specialized person in logistics department matches drivers to vehicles
- Considers driver competence and vehicle condition
- Approximately 500 drivers managed

### 4.7 Driver and Mechanic Recruitment and Testing Process
1. Applicant submits CV and Lagos state driver's license to HR
2. HR invites candidate for initial screening
3. Logistics department conducts questionnaire and driving test for drivers
4. Oral test on driving knowledge conducted by transport manager
5. For mechanics, a three-day trial is conducted to assess skills
6. If passed, document sent to HR
7. HR invites candidate for medical test
8. Candidate fills out employment forms
9. CSO or Risk Manager conducts background check
10. If passed, employment letter issued with six-month probation period
11. Admin checks papers and sends to appropriate department
12. Safety department conducts induction
13. Internal logistics induction conducted
14. Driver or mechanic assigned to location

### 4.8 Delivery Process
1. Mail received from requesting department (sales, internal divisions, etc.)
2. Delivery order generated by ERP
3. Driver provided with details by logistics coordinator
4. Customer confirmation obtained by sales or logistics team
5. Items collected from store and loaded by driver and motor boy or technician
6. Driver maintains contact with customer during transit
7. Customer signs and dates waybill upon delivery
8. Driver returns with signed waybill copy to logistics department

### 4.9 Inter-Branch Coordination
- Branches align for deliveries in other locations, coordinated by logistics department
- Lagos handles deliveries for other branches' Lagos-based clients

### 4.10 Additional Considerations
- Cash provided for out-of-Lagos deliveries (road expenses, night allowance) by finance department
- Community settlement funds sometimes required, approved by management
- Police assistance occasionally needed for difficult deliveries, arranged by logistics team
- Driver typically accompanied by either a motor boy (for general deliveries) or a technician (for specialized equipment deliveries)

### 4.11 Vehicle Maintenance
- Regular maintenance scheduled and tracked
- Repairs conducted in-house or by approved external workshops
- Maintenance history recorded for each vehicle

## 5. Areas for Potential Improvement

### 5.1 Steel Factory Sales Department
- Implement product training to address lack of knowledge about product details
- Improve sales staff's understanding of product specifications
- Enhance usage of ERP system for accessing product information

### 5.2 Production Efficiency
- Address storage space issues for large generators
- Implement storage fees for projects using facility as storage
- Improve communication between sales and store regarding stock availability

### 5.3 Customer Service
- Enhance tracking of quotations and invoice generation
- Implement system for logging verbal quotations and leads
- Improve segmentation of customers (e.g., fastest paying, highest paying)

### 5.4 Transport and Logistics
- Address issues with expired and damaged end documents
- Improve driver literacy to prevent document mishandling
- Enhance tracking of delivery orders and customer receipts in ERP

### 5.5 Inventory Management
- Improve tracking of materials used in production and maintenance
- Enhance coordination between store and production for material pricing

### 5.6 Technology Integration
- Expand use of ERP system across all departments
- Improve integration of HCLTrack.net data for better fleet management
- Implement system for uploading acknowledged run copies to ERP

### 5.7 Overhauling Department
- Optimize inventory management in the overhauling warehouse
- Improve coordination between overhauling team and other departments
- Enhance tracking of custom parts for large generator overhauling

These areas for improvement are based on specific issues mentioned in the original information. As you familiarize yourself with these processes, consider how we can address these areas to enhance our operations and profitability across all departments.

