Yeah the reason why it's this like heavy heavy research approach is because otherwise if we assume the 1% reply rate for us to close four to six deals in 12 months and get at 2% say 400 million Naira we would have to send 11,000 emails 11,000 emails if we were doing it the bulk way and not doing so much research on these individuals what we do at a researched way it's now like in the hundreds of companies three roles at those companies and obviously much more tailored to information about that company that person and that industry does that make sense? Makes sense so then basically we want to narrow this we want to filter our search yeah by finding higher quality people do higher quality research and then doing certain things that don't scale like for example you go in all of us both going to like see someone doesn't scale but like we would have picked this person out of X number of people and decided yes let's go yeah cool and also most of these companies as rich as they are they can't afford the engine not that they can't afford it but they're not liquid enough to pay for the engine so they want to buy power that is the trick that we're using now we have three companies that sell power those companies are Junaid, Kabota, Welbeck these three companies want to buy our engines and sell power to customers why or what is the difference between the three in what sense like why would someone go for Junaid over the other two? So all of them are IPP providers so they have their own clients so for us we decide who we want to give it to based on the relationship you understand it doesn't really matter it doesn't really matter so right now we don't give Welbeck any clients because they've not paid us any money yet so they need to give us some money buy one engine so we know alright you'll be buying engines from us we can give you a client that way whichever client we give you you're gonna buy the engine from us and you sell power to the client Junaid has already paid us for three engines or gas engines we have three gas engines he's paid us for three gas engines Kabota I think they ordered two engines it's been reserved I don't know if they've taken it maybe they paid but I know it there's two engines reserved for them so Kabota is through one of our old employees head of gas before he left this company he went to another company and then Junaid is through me and then Welbeck is through me so we're going to use Junaid?

Definitely yeah okay so you have a personal connection with the IPP provider yeah how how close are you to this person? He's my brother's friend okay so very close in Lagos? He's in Lagos yeah but my brother is in Abuja yeah where in Lagos is Junaid? Their office is in Ikwi okay so any time we can go we can sit with them and we can ask them what is the largest deal you have currently in your pipeline? The largest deal in the pipeline is Welbeck 15 megawatts okay tell me about Welbeck like what industry is it how long have you been trying to close this deal for is it more complexity or standard so this 15 megawatt deal for Welbeck 5-0 yeah they they were approached by Ecodisco yeah what's Ecodisco?

Lagos distribution company oh Ecodisco yeah the one okay the bill payer yeah their distribution company yeah so Welbeck would be the generating company so they didn't want to work with Ecodisco because most of these IPP providers don't want to work with government direct government doesn't pay them on time you understand so when Axella bought Ecodisco they said okay now they can work with them because Axella is a gas provider Axella provides gas for most of them and Axella has liquidity to pay and on time so now they need to raise funds to be able to afford 50 engines or maybe 20 maybe 30 engines depends on the size that they're getting if it's one megawatt to 1,5 or 2 so that is the biggest deal in the pipeline I mean they are what industry? Ecodisco oh okay their power then second biggest how long have you been trying to close this has been on the table for let me confirm the exact date 6th March three months okay when do you think when do you think you'd close it if it were to be closed?

3 months? 6 months? 9 months? Maybe 6 months 6 months maybe okay at a high level right and I'll ask you like more questions can you explain to me the end-to-end like what is the what is the process so let's say I have identified a person found them they're like I'm focused with this I want this power solution I don't want to buy what I was doing before I want to do gas and then I say okay I'm gonna pass you to a sales partner what is the process after that on average obviously there's edge cases but let's start with the ideal scenario between a customer yeah you've been given a warmly so first thing first you ask them do they have an existing power plant already if they do then are they trying to increase or are they trying to change what they have okay so yeah you ask them if they have an existing power yeah are they trying to increase power or are they trying to remove the engines that they have to get new sets of engines if that's the case can they afford to buy it by themselves if they can sweet if they cannot then we get denied to buy the engine and sell them the power which then they need to agree with him on the rates that he's selling so we go for a site inspection we look at what is required so that we can give them a bill of quantity is a transformer needed is it medium voltage low voltage and from there do they have a pipeline existing or we need to give them a pipeline then tonight has a relationship with Axel then the sign a 10-year contract based on the quantity of gas required if it's a one megawatt engine probably they will not agree to do the pipeline because it's not enough gas but if it's maybe three megawatts two megawatts five megawatts they will probably agree to have a 10-year contract then depending on the depending on if they need gas only or gas and power or power only we will give them a price so the price depend depends on you know the that's your PFI no that's a proposal that's from tonight to the clients my PFI is from me to tonight so tonight I'm working your PFI quotation maybe mm-hmm that's why I was by the end okay yours is a quotation for the engines tonight is a quotation for the power yeah power and gas yeah then obviously if it's power only is cheaper if it's power and gas gas cost twice as much as the power if power cost one Naira power and gas because three Naira because they don't have a pipeline I see so if they don't have a pipeline they will need gas if not they'll be using CNG which is twice as expensive as piped gas okay so Lee comes to you they give you their requirements or we go for a site inspection to see the requirements and then then a bill of quantity is sent by tonight to the plan they decide if they like this or not there's some negotiation then they will be issued a sales invoice after you issue a invoice for the last thing I do is to give him tonight the invoice so as long so actually he has a price that we give him all the time because you know of these units that we have the current stock but actually the last the end of you or the end of this process then is a sales invoice sent to someone that there is a good relationship yeah and then from there he does everything else like even into year seven it's just him you mean between tonight and become tonight and the clients usually they sign a 10-year contract or maybe five-year contract so once we sell the engine to tonight we have no business with the client again okay so this is actually the business of finding customers to then so yeah we used to do IPP by ourselves but it's not profitable chairman doesn't want to do it again okay so instead of us selling to instead of us selling power to the customers we sell our engine to tonight that way we can buy a new engine you understand so the list I gave you now of these customers these are IPP customers we sell power to them but we're trying to pull out okay so we don't we don't want to look at those you can these are but when but like if I generated a thousand more those are what we want we can still use them because we can give them to Kabuta, Welbeck or Junaid.

They become people that are getting power through Junaid as opposed to power through you. So the target is to sell the engine not to sell power now most companies can't afford to buy the engine so we have Junaid, Welbeck and Kabuta for this reason they can afford the engine they're in the business of selling power because they will probably make the money back in two years. So you're explaining or you're clarifying that this business is the business of sales invoices to an IPP provider, not the business of providing IPP. Correct. If the clients can afford the engine it's good for us we sell the engine outright if they can't we sell to the IPP provider and they sell the power.

Do you have so far in your experience any way of telling or guessing whether a company will be able to afford both? Both? What do you mean? Like if I showed you 10 companies and I gave you like you know headcount, industry, location, stuff like that would you be able to say these guys can probably afford engines? All of them can afford to buy the engine outright, all of them.

It's all about do they want to? I see, okay that's fine. Because they're gonna be paying about if it's power only they could be paying around 200 depending on the size of the engine they're paying about 200 or maybe 180 million Naira monthly on power so instead of using their That's an average. It depends on a lot of different things so to do an average we need to do a lot of calculations so it depends on if they want to be if they want to own the engine because if they own the engine you need to do the operation and maintenance themselves there's a lot of things to consider so if they're going to be only buying power they know somebody will be maintaining the engine, operating the engine, everything.

They just need to be paying for the power. Why would anyone opt to do both then if they could just pay for the power and save themselves? You make your money back in a year and a half or two years so if you're going to be paying 1,5 billion a year on power that's the cost of the engine. So if they own the engine they will make the money back in a year and then the remaining nine years or eight years of the life cycle of the engine they're not paying the cost of the engine they're just paying the operating instead of CapEx. They make the CapEx back in a year basically.

I'm guessing every day Junaid tells you what he's selling power for. I see the offer that he sends to the clients so I know the price he's selling at. Okay now I know that you see the proposal but what I want to know is I don't want the proposal number I want a daily FX I want to know what are the rates of gas, power, diesel. No. Someone tells you. I see it's based on the price he gives. So you just use the latest proposal as the official number.

Yeah also the grid doesn't change they give their prices based on what the grid is selling at. So if grid is selling at 2,10 let's say band A is 2,10. Hi FT what's happening we have not seen a while. So okay separately to this I want us to just have a space where we're going to keep certain things. So what we'll do is we'll use Google Sheets so we'll both be looking at the same like this is roughly who we're talking to. These are some of the points that everyone should remember.

This is a price that this is the price of diesel this is the price of gas. This is a preferred buyer because these are all the things that will make doing this type of research much much easier. The next thing what is your experience with email outreach in Nigeria doesn't have to be in this specific context. It doesn't really work.

Do you think it doesn't? It doesn't work. Do you mean you send a random company an email and hope they respond based on what you're selling? For what I know.

What are you selling the email to in the company? So if they need gas they would probably be the ones to reach out. They're not going to be sitting around waiting for you to tell them that they need power. They need power they will reach out to somebody who will reach out to somebody. So you the best way is to wear a mouth or somebody who knows somebody that's what I know.

There's not one company that I've been able to reach out to. So we still need to make a system that works with email. Because you understand that email is the thing that's the most scalable. And even if it doesn't work it probably isn't going to work because how many emails have you sent to how many CEOs? We're talking about the people who feel the pain of it every day and who are a bit more checking their email.

And then I see what you're saying but maybe we have people that will send the emails and then they can get a response from the company. But chances are so for example whenever I'm going to Shandong I will see the factories I'll check my map which factory is this. And then I'll get a number from that company. I'll ask somebody do you know anybody in this factory? From there try to penetrate this.

But you try to penetrate via code. Let somebody call somebody. Yeah let somebody call somebody not via email. Because if you're emailing you're not emailing a director. And if you are you probably don't have time to email.

No we're not emailing directors. You're emailing somebody who has no power. We're emailing procurement managers. Maybe it could work. It could probably work.

It could work. But from what I know. Well that's fine because what I can still. If I'm doing this in a site where for example let's say I'm able to track opens. And this person has opened all three of the three emails.

And we also have their number. And then it can be a thing of okay does anyone know this person? We have their number can they call? It could work. It could work. We just need to have a list of the companies that we're going to email.

Complete a percentage gain. The reason why is because email scales. And because we are selling such an expensive thing. A 1% conversion is still a lot of money. Because otherwise this conversation is more.

Look at this calendar. Yeah. So the reason why I say that is because if email doesn't work. Then our next thing is basically a calendar of events. Or opportunities that we have to physically go to.

That is a very good way to get new clients. I don't know. We can build that as well. Okay so I'm not going to pause the recording. But the biggest thing. Because the way that I've seen this.

Just off of email which is way more scalable. We only have so much time. And we can see these sell cycles are like 6 to 9 months. And there's only so many large companies. But if we move quickly.

So for example I think the numbers that I was seeing. Is I need to send around 230 emails a week. To those 3 different people at these organizations. And just hammer it out. How are we going to get these emails?

Figure it out. The technical side is like where I'm coming in. It's essentially I'm going to have to scrape. I'm going to have to use certain back end systems. And I'm going to have to figure it out.

But the point being is that I highly value it. Definitely here. I love doing it. Definitely. So that's why I'm saying it.

We actually have an opportunity to make like salt. I know we don't have to go into the office anymore. We can just be like. You know what I'm doing. You know where I'm going.

Yeah. Because. This is the ISL fella. Anyway so. You feel like it's useless? No it is.

It is. I leave the house knowing I'd be more productive where I left from. Yeah. A hundred percent. Let's try to make a positive. Yeah.

That's the same reason I left procurement. So in procurement. Right. I oppose this. No no. It's a very very thankless department.

A hundred percent. Because when you do your job correctly. You're meant to do your job correctly. So you only get spoken to when you mess up. There's no way that you can be a hero in procurement. While in sales.

You can go one year without making any sales. But then you make one sale. Then you're a hero. There's no beneficial. Yeah. In this division that we're trying to penetrate now.

We can make a good impact. And also we need to place an order for new engines. We need to sell the units that are here before the new engines arrive. If not we're fucked. Why are we fucked? We have a lot of stock.

Okay. This year. Are we willing to discount? Yeah we give good discounts. Okay. Well to a certain level.

Yeah a hundred percent. Why not? It could be. More than five. It could be ten percent. Okay cool.

It could be ten percent. But our engines are still the most expensive engines. Yeah. More expensive than Caterpillar. These are what? NTU?

MTU. Okay. MTU is more expensive than MWM. NTU is Rolls-Royce. MTU yeah. Is Rolls-Royce.

Is Rolls-Royce. I get that. Yeah thanks. So our rivals are using cheaper engines. For like similar quality. If not the same quality.

If not better. They're all German. MWM is German. MTU is German. It's not what seller is selling. So how do you try to sell?

How do you convince the clients? It depends on the sizes that they want. So if they're going to sell 2,5 MW chances are we don't have 2,5 MW on the ground. So we have competition there.

If it's to sell 2 MW most of them don't have 2 MW in stock. They don't have 1,5 MW. We have them. That's how we penetrate the stock. Before I do this research on companies then what I actually need is a stock report. It's different doing 2 hours research on a company to find out if they need an engine that we don't have.

That we have competition in. When we need to move a certain amount of stock before we do new. So what we have stock of is 1,1. 1,5. We have 1 unit of 2 left.

How many 1,1's? About 12 1,1's. Okay so you have 13 units of 1,1. Is this live? Yeah. 13 units of 1,1.

12 units of 1,5. 1 unit of 2. Okay so 30 basically sells before you can order more. So we're not going to place an order for 1,1 because we have stock of them.

But we need to get rid of the 1,5's. 1,5's. 1,5's is 12. 12 units. Okay so 12 units sold. We need to sell them this year.

We have to. Okay. So we have them. Omo Wood could take 4 units. Hayat could take 2 units.

Yeah. Let me continue. Alright. Let me continue. Alright.

Sell cycles on average 12 to 18 months. What does that mean? Like the time from you meeting a potential lead to... Closing? Closing. Yeah.

Okay. How do you maintain momentum during a long negotiation period? Weekly follow up. Follow up. Because you can't do daily.

It takes a long time to gather the money. So you don't want to frustrate them. You have to understand. But maybe once a week you check in. What's happening this week? Sometimes they will be the ones to tell you.

Alright this progress has been made. But once a week you get in touch. So that they remember. Or finally if they're tired of you. They'll say hey we're not buying again. You understand?

Sometimes they just stop replying. So there's no point of doing weekly again if they don't reply. Maybe you do monthly. Okay. Can... Is there an industry?

If I was looking to produce a lead list of let's say 100 companies for us to go. And we find a few other companies. Are there any industries that should be prioritized? Manufacturing. When you're manufacturing.

You said prioritize? Yeah. Manufacturing. Yeah. Are there any subcategories in manufacturing? Like chemical, MCG.

It depends. It depends on if they're running 24-7. Or if it's a plastic factory. Or basically manufacturing.

Because they can't run on diesel. And they can't rely on NEPA. So they prioritize gas. Okay that's fine. Then another question I have is.

Manufacturing is such a good priority. If I said to you manufacturing. Then construction. No. Okay.

Give me two others. Hospitality. Okay. Manufacturing. Hospitality. And. Manufacturing. Hospitality.

Telecom. And telecom. Okay. Option one is in Nigeria. Manufacturing. Then hospitality. Then telecoms.

And option B is manufacturing Nigeria. Manufacturing Benin. Manufacturing Ghana. Manufacturing Cameroon. It depends on if they have gas. In these countries. Okay.

You got it. For example. Senegal don't have that much gas. They're starting to realize the gas that they have now. So you can't take gas engines there.

If they don't have the gas. And also even if they do have the gas. Is the gas cheaper than diesel? Gas is a commodity here. Because it's cheaper than diesel. If the gas over there is the same price as the diesel.

Then it's cheaper for them to use the diesel engine. Because diesel engine is third of the price of a gas engine. So a lot of factors. Okay.

To consider before you go to another country. Okay. In your opinion. Because obviously there's a big part of sales follow-up. That you'll have to do.

How many companies. What's your maximum capacity of companies? In one week. If I sent out 230 emails. For a week. Let's just go back.

230 emails. And I sent it for a week. And after the back of that. We had 20 meetings. With 15 different companies. Can you manage that?

Of course. Okay. We choose. So it depends. Where do you want to meet?

I'm telling you. Do they want to meet in their office? Do they want us to come meet at their site? Do they want us to meet at a restaurant? Do they want us to come to their house? Some CEOs will say come to my house.

So you gauge the importance. And then based on your own free time. You say. Alright. This week I have this meeting at 2pm on Monday. Can you do 8am or 10am on Tuesday?

So you just ask them. But whenever they want to meet you this week. Try to meet them this week. If they say Monday. And you can't do Monday. Try to do Tuesday.

If you can't do Tuesday. Tell them alright Wednesday. You can tell them you're out of town. For a site inspection or something. If it's urgent. And you can't go.

You send somebody. Okay. So I'm thinking about. What you said earlier about. How good it is to go to these kind of events.

Because then that brings up the topic. Of doing a two-tier system. One which is us developing this email system. And then scaling that. And the other one is more the interpersonal things. We could.

Not necessarily just events. But just going to places. But I don't know how that works. Can we just go to like. I don't know where.

Where have you found people that you've converted. Not that you've sold to yet. But just that they are now the lead. So Mining Week in November. Is a conversion for.

It's called Mining Week. So companies that have mines. They want to sell their products. Companies that provide TIPA trucks. TIPA. TIPA.

T-I-P-P-E-R. TIPA trucks. They want to sell their TIPA truck there. Companies that sell excavators. They will go there. Okay.

So industrial events. So it's mining. Okay. So it would actually be useful for me to. Put together a. List of the current. June.

June till December. The conventions that we held. Okay. Cool.

Might be air conditioning convention. Might be real estate convention. You go there. Just take your card. Yeah.

Meet different people. Ask them what is their source of power. I have my card. I see. Ask them what their source of power is. You go to different stands.

You go to different stands. And then you ask them. Did you get this made yourself? Or did you actually make it?

No. Company did it. Company did it. But you still have supply chain. Yeah. I have a lot of it.

When I finish the supply chain cards. Then I can make a new one. But I like my supply chain specialist. It covers everything. Yeah. See mine.

Is going to say CRM supervisor. Which is just. No one understands. Exactly. So I don't know what I should do. Like.

Change it. Have a new one made. I don't have one. In the first place. You don't have. It doesn't have to say CRM supervisor.

I can make it say anything. Can I speak my own card? You can. Okay. What title? You can use business developer.

Business developer. Yeah. Okay. Actually. Use business developer. Or power consultant.

Okay. Or. You know. Business developer covers everything. Yeah. Okay. This supply chain specialist.

Yeah. Covers everything. So. There's a bunch of questions. That I haven't asked you. Because. I don't necessarily think.

They're all needed right now. But. What I do want to ask you. Is. From what I have said. And what you have answered.

First of all. I want you to just. I just want you to bring them. For. For. For.

For. For. For. For. For. For.

For. Yeah. So I don't. You can just. I'm sorry.

You can just. Like. I haven't actually. Got it.

Very important. They may be some news for example. There may be. A convention or a law. That was recently passed.

That means. For example. I didn't. Know to ask you. What is our stock.

And do we need to order? Do we need to sell something. Before you can order more. When you said that so there. Yep. Yeah.

So. Where do I even start? Or let's? Take the selling points now. The reason why we need to sell. Before the engines arrive. Is because.

A lot of our. Liquidity. Is. Stuck in. The gas stock. That we have.

Here. Each engine costs. About. Seven hundred thousand dollars. And if we have. Fifty of them.

That's a lot of liquidity. That is on ground. That Sherman. Is willing to invest. To keep the engines on ground. Because it gives us an edge.

Whenever clients are coming. So usually. First thing. The clients will ask is. Do you have the engines here? If you don't have the engines.

Then it will take like. One point five. Yeah. It takes eight months. That's why we need to. We have a year.

To sell them. So now. Once they approve. To pay the money. For the new stock. They're not going to bring in.

Stock of one megawatt. Because. We have thirty units. Of one megawatt.

We can't sell them this year. The target usually. Is to sell like one unit. A month.

These are expensive engines. You need to be realistic. So. One unit a month. Then you still have a lot of. One point one. So we're not going to order.

One point one. We're going to order. One point five. So. If you're. In Britain. Maybe hotels now.

They don't have space. For two units. Of one megawatt. They might need two megawatts. But they can only fit in. One unit.

So you need to get. A two megawatt. Or two point five megawatts. For them. Because of the space constraints. So that's one thing.

That you need to consider as well. But if it's a factory. Then there's probably space. So. Having stock on ground. Is very very important. That's why we need to sell the units.

Before. Stock arrives. Because once they approve. For the stock to be. For the engines to be bought. It means. That these engines are going to go.

You understand. So. That's one thing. Another thing. You can sell the engine. You sell power per kilowatt hour. Right.

Some clients don't want that. They want you to give them a fixed rate. Monthly. This month. I'm going to pay. Eighty million.

And every month. Will be eighteen million. Whether they use more than the eighteen million. Or they use less than the eighteen million. They're paying eighteen million.

So you. When you're given the price. You need to consider that. Because. They don't want to be.

They're going to do their own projections. Based on. What they're buying. So. They're going to do their own projections. Based on. What their power.

Is. So the reason they're coming to you. Is because. You're going to replace the grid for them. They're not going to be on the grid. They're going to be on. Your source of power.

So you need to be reliable. And they feel like. Alright. I'm paying for this. They're going to give me this. No.

Fluctuations. No downtime. Another thing to consider. You need to. Agree with the client.

Who is going to do. The civil work. Sometimes. Construction will be needed. Sometimes.

No. If it's a new site. Construction will definitely be needed. You understand. So. You need to agree. Because. Construction could cost like.

100 million naira. Wires could cost like. 500 million naira. So. All of these things. Are what you have to. That's why we go for the site inspection.

Yeah. I understand. And. Let me see. What else?

What else? What else? Sometimes they approach you to try to. Get you to fix their old engines. Different brands.

And then you. Instead of saying. I'm not going to fix it. Because it's not my engine. You. Word it in a way.

You say no. I need an alternative. That's one thing. That is very important. You tell them. I can't fix it.

However. I can provide you with. This other brand. Are you interested? They'll ask you. How much is it?

You tell them the price. They say no. I can't afford it. You say okay. How about I sell you. Power. You want to buy power?

I have a company that will buy from me. And they will sell the power to you. That's something you're interested in. You'll probably be interested. At the end of the day. They need power.

That's an affordable price. So you have the price list. The price. I don't have the new one. It's. Two years ago.

So now. Because. The price is from two years ago. Whenever you have a client. So my client. He has his own price.

For us. We'll give him. Maybe. Like seven hundred. And ten.

Twenty thousand dollars. And depending on. Who he has to satisfy. We add something. On top to satisfy. The person.

But nobody needs to know all of this. Because. Chairman usually. Has to agree. Has to agree to what? On who will get the commission.

Because. Junaid will come. With the. Client. And then. He has to.

Satisfy somebody from his. Who got that client. Yeah. You understand.

So there's. There's a lot of politics involved. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Um. I think I should be coming. To some of these. Meetings. Next. Next one I'm going. I could go with you.

Yeah. If I have. Maybe. After two weeks. I'm traveling.

You're traveling in two weeks? I'm traveling. The day after tomorrow. Okay. For two weeks.

Okay. I think. You should come. I'm coming. It's more.

Because there'll be certain things. You won't notice. But I won't notice. Yeah.

Definitely. It's not straightforward. It's very. Do you have. Any questions for me.

So far. Um. I think. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little.

I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little.

I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little.

I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little.

I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little.

I'm a little. I'm a little. I'm a little. How do you get. I get. Um. I get.

Um. Like when I can have a coffee. Um. I like conversations. Um. Um. I like. Talk on the phone with my friends. You know.

I can talk to my friends. Things I needed that I need that I need to take care of. How about you. If I've got to take a trip. Um. I will take you to your head office. Your heades hall.

Footneb. Something I need to take you to, you guys can, they'll always continue to have a wrap up meeting. Not like you can only come in online for like two days. Ok. If I have a choice. I will come finished. If in Abuja and you're here.

That's why I told you just wait, let me come back. It's much easier. Right. Because I don't have the attention span. Because if I'm there. I'm probably doing something there. Ok. Ok. I'm going to stop this.