Skip to main content



Share

Munaj Gas 002
What exactly can be promised about maintenance is MTU direct support or mechanical support, where the actual service occasions. 
All right. So for these engines, we recommend for the customer to enter a annual maintenance contract with us 
that way, maybe seven times in a year at the designated time, we will go and we'll service the engine. 
We will charge the customer, of course, for the maintenance contract, but it'll keep the engine under warranty, and it'll help the life cycle of the engine. 
So where are the actual service locations we go to the engine to service it. 
You understand? 
Wherever it's okay, right? Yeah, to service it. 
And is it direct support from MTU, support on Nico, support, MT support us, so we can support the customer. 
MTU doesn't support the customer directly. They support us and we support the customer. Okay? So no, reach out to MTU directly. 
If anybody does, the MTU will tell them, Go to become Okay, yeah. 
So there's nothing that we promise and we don't deliver whatever we we tell them, we deliver. 
Okay. 
Gas availability, and we promise gas availability, or just say we can discuss options. Do we have an actual partnership or just referrals? So most of these customers, 
they approach us, 
so before they approach us, they have somebody that they will get the gas from, either green Coke, Greenville, AXELA, okay, for those, can you type them to me? Because I know it's going to get these names wrong. Um, 
one thing I want to know as well. 
So you're saying, we go for those people. 
Yeah, you said that most of the time the companies come to us. Yeah. Can you explain what that means? Like, they need to cut down their operating costs? No, I get they have a pain that they want solved, but when you say they come to us, do they message? Do they call the hotline? Do they speak to feraz? And Faraz passes it to you most of the time, because we're not an unknown company, they will ask somebody, do you know anybody? Then that person will say, I know this person. I know that person. So they might reach out to fighting in Abuja, if the customer is based in Lagos. Finally, might say, Talk to surveil. I'll send you sales number, or they'll give surveil the person's number. Most of the time, customers are reached out to me saying I got your number from social person. Okay, so who gives you the most customers? Then let's do it that way. Who have you received the most leads from Shadi? Shadi is head of plastic. 
That's there's a note, there's a note. Is, is that the same one that my guys spoke with? Well, that was Muhammad. So that's why I'm getting confused. Who is I don't think I know who Shadi Karami is, but they're both Chairman's cousin. AHA 
has he doesn't come here often? Does he? None of them come here often, maybe twice, three times a year, whenever they have something to do. 
Okay, so, okay, so Shelly gives you leads, because Shali was head of gas, yeah, before walking head of gas tech, 
excuse, head of the gas division. Okay, then Omar became head of gas division. Came seals. Okay. Now I think Shari is out of gas completely, but a lot of the customers still know him Correct. A lot of like his old customers, will refer somebody to Him, then He will send them to me. Okay, you understand, and that's the majority. 
When you say that's the majority, are we talking more than 80% come from shabby we could say 50% is the other 50% random, or some could be from Sohail. 
Some could be from Omar, okay, some could be from janai. Janai is our customer, right? He will tell me, all right, I'm the customer that I want to sell power for, they need to talk to you first, yeah, to know where I'm getting the engine from, okay? Or it could be from wellbeck, okay, also a customer. 
But So one question I want to ask you, Okay, where is wellbeck or Gen nine? That is a customer who's come to buy power, who genitals or wellbeck have not turned around to go to a supplier of said product. 
If we know that we're more expensive, if we know that we're more expensive, in what scenario would someone still go for that offer? Do you see? I mean, yeah, it depends on one. Could be the relationship, okay, Sue. Could be who's bringing the deal, what they're getting out of deal. Okay? So a lot of the time, actually, this thing of it being more expensive because someone is adding their own. No, our engine is more expensive most 
of the time. The main reason, even though we're more expensive, we get to sales, yes, 
okay, 
we haven't updated. 
So I know the last time we spoke, we had one, but I'm sure it's changed. 
We have about 30 megawatts across. How many ones we can do that to be fair? 
Okay, so you get 50% of your leads from the ex head of gas tech or gas Omar also can contribute some to them. You get your leads, and then what you message them the questionnaire, ask them, What are they looking for? Customer reached out to me. Said they're only looking to lease for six months. I said, we can't help you in this case, yeah, a new engine just to sell our to make sense. 
Okay, so, but generally speaking, you're, you're calling them, you're once together 
contact. Then I try to schedule a site inspection if it's in Lagos, if it's only Lagos, for example, if it's in I have somebody from Port Harcourt inspection. Okay? 
We have, how long does the Okay? We have 1.1 megawatts. We have 30 in stock. 
We have 32 in stock, but because 
two are reserved for our customers, okay, one 
megawatts, we have 16, but we say we have 12, because four are reserved and then two megawatts. We have two, but one is reserved, so we have one. 
Okay, so most of the time we get to sell even though we're more expensive, because maybe the relationship we have with the customer referred the customer to us the reliability of the engine. Sometimes they rather use a German engine compared to an American engine. 
Okay, yeah, because some Yeah, yeah, sometimes they don't want to use German MTU. They want to use German MWM, okay, because there's less cylinders, a similar amount of power. Okay, so maintenance cost is cheaper for MWM. Okay, so we have MWM. We had, but we don't have, right? Okay, so we sell MT, yes. So there's many different factors. You can't just say this is the reason why they buy from us, and also, um, 
yeah, it could be like the relationship, like I said, whatever the person who is bringing the deal is adding on top it could be a referral, so that will influence if they buy from us or maintenance, as in the amendment engine, if They're willing to wait to buy it from abroad. 
Mm, 
about when they want to do the containerization? 
What if they want to do the maintenance? So these are all factors that make us more expensive. Okay, 
you 
can't promise gas availability, sorry, um, 
gas availability, 
I 
okay. No, that's fine. That's fine. If we go on technical numbers to buy gas generated, 
you probably have gas, but they have somewhere they're buying as well, but let's say they don't have then I will connect them with my buyer tonight, well bank tonight, or wellbeck have relationships with gas suppliers. Okay? So tonight will offer them either you want to buy power or you want to buy power and gas, okay, if you want to buy power, it's cheaper. If you want to buy power and gas is three times more, but your payback time is much less. No. I mean, they're selling to the customer, yeah, so if they're selling the power, only 100 if they're going to sell power and gas, 
let's say, CNG, it could be like 300 if they're selling power and height, gas, not energy. PNG, be like 200 Okay, so it depends. So if, for example, the factories in Chicago now there's a pipeline there, you can do a 10 year contract with AXELA. They will run the pipeline or mgml. Let me 
write it for you. Mgml, that's lnbc, gas marketing limited one of the major suppliers of gas, 
so we can refer companies. Well, usually our buyers have a relationship with these gas so 
we are not in the business of selling gas or in the business of selling 
Yeah, yeah. 
Business of selling power, yeah. 
Selling the engines power, selling the engines, business of selling energy. 
Yeah. 
Um, 
so we have a delivery advantage, which is in country, stock, 30 megawatt, sorry, 31.1 12, 1112, 
lead Time to site we 
gotta has no binding, okay, okay? 
So, 
okay, I'm gonna ask you some rapid actually. No, let's first, let's finish the main question. And can also want 
ngmo Is what NNPC gas marketing limited NPC gas. 
And their role is that they do what for us, or how. How are they involved in this? They're a big gas provider. Oh, they provide. 
So a lot of the companies around shut down, and then PC provides the gas. Okay, 
cool. 
Technical numbers. Do we have an uptime? Percentage efficiency uptime, like it's running for hours. No problem. Okay, cool, 24 hours for like, 40 days, then, okay, so how long will it be down for? After hours? Okay, so every 40 days it's done three hours. It's about hours running every for example, every 1500 hours you service. Okay, cool, maybe 2000 hours. Okay, it depends. Okay, no problem. So it can run for that amount, as long as the pool parts. Just so that do we have an efficiency 44 how are we talking efficiency? 
So these engines, usually they're between 35 to 40% this is output per fuel, power from fuels, okay, so that's actually first 44% in 
reality, it's about 41 Okay, yeah, cost savings, I guess, what are the cost savings on OPEC or cost savings on capex? Usually like, what is, what is your element? Okay, if you're 
going to use gas only. Gas engines, you can go off grid as well. So you save money on grid. You don't need to pay that. So no diesel, no NEPA, no diesel, no. 
But how? How do you give that life? Or how do you give that a a more tailor made response to someone. So let's say you're taught. I'm let's say I'm a manufacturer of paint coatings. They run their factory on diesel, 24/7, okay, so you're just saying remove. So let's say I spend what's really well, I spend 400 m a year a month. Okay, 400 m a month on diesel. Okay, so what my What am I now going to spend? On gas if I'm turning 200 m, okay, so roughly, we're talking about 75% savings. Okay, is there's a number we can say, okay, tell them you can. You can see that's such a big like 33% to 75 is a massive you can save. So if you're spending, how much is diesel now, one, two, pipe, gas, let's say 404 50, you're saving a third of the cost, you understand. 
And most of these companies, they don't rely on NEPA. You can't run a factory and then never go off. Yeah, you have to run on diesel, and then at night, you turn off your factory. 
So that's something that that's a selling point, just so that if you have this power plant, you don't need any source of power, or if you buy the power from one of our customers, our customer will sell you the power. Yeah, okay, cool. 
Um, do you know what our real installation timeline is in comparison to competitors? Um, installation, one month, one month. Yeah, end to end. Everything done in the 66 
Yes. How far, no. 
Why are you actually like this. 
A glory. 
How amazing. 
Testing, testing, testing, testing, testing. We're going with cost savings, right? We are done with 
those. Okay, so there's a last part which is okay. So uptime, it's three hours out for every field. Efficiency was 40, between 41 and 44% cost savings was a third, yeah, and these are all verifiable. 
Um, very cool. So they're they're all verified. None of those are marketed numbers, so good, 
then our delivery advantage. So what is our real installation, 
containerization could take two to four weeks. Actually, that's a good point. Can you tell me the phases? So purchase and we remove 
it from remove it from the warehouse, we take it to the assembly Bay. Okay, in the assembly Bay, we'll do the containerization, okay. Containerization, the air handling units, the piping of 
the control panel, the mounting of the engine inside the container, all of this. Okay, two weeks to four weeks. 
Okay, so it's quick, in a hurry for it. We can bring it like because, you know, there's a line, there's engines being assembled. 
Bring it closer, so you can do it in two weeks, but let's say four weeks to be safe, four weeks, four weeks to be safe. And then the delivery, depending on how far it is, it could be 
four days depending on distance, right? And then once you're there, the installation in like insights could be, could be one 
week, because definitely the civil work that has to be done. You expect that the civil work is being done while the engine is being assembled. 
That way, you will save time with civil work. 
Great, oh, because you're doing at the same time, yeah, like you tell them, like they have civil work to do. Do it early. Okay, so once we take it, we're going to mount it like wire construction, depending on what kind of location it is, to accommodate the Indian Okay, cool. So, yeah, installation could take a week. Two weeks. 
Wiring plays a part. If there's a lot of wiring to be on, 
yeah, it'll take longer. If there's not much wiring to be done, it's easier to do installation for engines or for sites that have had an engine before, okay, you understand? Yeah, that way you're just doing plug and play. Well, if it's a brand new site, then it'll take a lot longer time. Okay, 
cool, all right, now, 
so obviously, 
okay, give me 
Give me five minutes. 
I got more questions for you. 
For the time. So question one, these are all like follow up questions, can you give me an AMC price list per megawatt? So what is the price for one 1.1 no. Okay, no problem. 
I can give you a ballpark. Yeah, that's fine for one megawatts, 
let's say $75,000 per year. Okay? Ballpark, Walmart, 1.1 around the same. 
1.1 Yeah, one point 
1.5 
similar. Okay? And then two, what? Two? 159, it's not double, okay, it's not double. Maybe $10,000 more. Okay, okay, cool. 
Which line items void the MTU warranty, besides missed services, for example, non filter, unless you know the answer any if you use any outside product, or if you do maintenance by yourself, 
because we get our warranty based on what our customer does, if our customer follows our 
mind, yeah, we can Apply for warranty, okay? Because if they go and use a foreign object, 
we need to tell them to you, because they're going to ask us, okay, 
which no, what's the fastest? 
Yeah, what's the fastest and the worst case response time technicians achieved up last year 
what's fair, stocked in Lagos versus flown in what's the longest current lead time? 
All the parts that are for servicing are installed. Okay? So that is Spark, blown filter. Okay, 
how many firefighting call outs did you handle or do we handle in 2024 
and what did they cost clients? 
Okay, which gas vendors already have physical access pipeline? CNG, LNG, to the client site, post, quote, all of them have acceler and LDC. They have pipe gas. Okay, 
green view, they have LNG and I believe CNG, Nico, I believe as well, have LNG and CNG. They don't have pipe gas. 
Okay, 
give me one second. 
Are you are you going back to the head office? Are you eating here? Maybe 10? 
Do we hold any MOUs, or is every introduction pure referral? 
Like you know, sometimes when you're trying to start up a partnership with a company or something like this, you you deliver an MOU so it's like, I the client, you the party. These are the things that are my responsibilities, or your 
responsibilities, the contracts that our buyer since the customer, 
there is an MOU, not an MOU, there's the statement saying you are responsible for this. Do you have one? 
Yeah, but there's not much clients about the owner of the sites will be responsible for the transformer. They'll be responsible for the wiring. They'll be responsible for fire hydrants, safety and then probably civil work. So each site is different. You're going to quote the price that you're going to sell each month based on what is agreed. Sometimes a customer will say they don't want to deal with anything. You take the full responsibility. Okay, so it depends, okay, um, 
okay, 
that's every if you can, though you can send one. It might still be useful. Here. 
It says, Can I get a redacted sample of a gas contract showing Price Index and take or pay closes. Do you have 
that? 
Do you can I get a redacted sample gas contract showing Price Index and take clauses? Is that in the United one, okay, who funds and manages gas quality testing, the supplier, the client or us, who funds gas quality testing, gas content? I testing. 
We 
don't have any control over gas quality testing. Oh, we don't. 
Uh huh, so it's the client of a, yeah, well, generally, gas In that 
I, 
okay, um, so, just, just a table for what? 
Okay, can you send me a screenshot? 
I think, yeah, no, I recognise this screen. I don't know. Is this the same one or the same one? Oh, they're happy. Okay, then it should be fine. 
No, you did send me the, 
yeah, I sent you this exact one. Okay, 
what contingency do we trigger? If it's like, what contingency do we trigger if methane, number of pressure drops mid contract that you said there's good gas here, so it's fine. There's like, maybe two weeks in a year, two weeks in a year, usually that the gas pressure goes down. 
So you make contingency for those two weeks, because they'll let you know. CNG on sites, okay? Or you use those two weeks maybe to do servicing, okay, so they use a backup generator, okay, so who provides that backup generator? Power provider? Okay, okay. 
And in a situation where the customer has their own generators on site, like, for example, Oriental Hotel, they will provide their own backup. Okay, so just that month, well, you're going to charge up only for what you saw. Okay, um, 
can we share live cost per kilowatt hour calculator for prospects? 
So there was some digital thing that was made to just be like our only. This is about 95 Naira, let's say 100 Naira per kilowatt hour. Okay, 
power only, 100 Naira kilowatt hour. But we don't really have like, a speed on that. 
No, okay, um, power and PNG, pipe, gas, maybe 210, okay, 
Cng will be more, okay. 
What site conditions immediately invalidate performance guarantees. Select temperature, humidity, gas, spec, dust, dust is there? Is there? Like a number on dust or a figure any dirty area, any dusty area, will affect the life of the unit, okay, 
what deposit locked a unit and how many calendar days before we assigned 
what deposits it depends on who's buying. The relationship we have a certain customer, okay, 
sometimes they don't even pay any deposit. 
Keep the engine for them. We just ask them how long. But in other other situations is 100% payment. Then we lock the engine, okay, but if they pay any amounts, you don't even need any money to reserve the engine, as long as we get a guarantee of some sort, yeah, if we tell them or how long do you want us to reserve it for? And they see one month, we'll say, okay, one month, we'll reserve it because the engine is, 
yeah, if during that one month, somebody wants to buy the engine, then we will need to get a guarantee from them. So let me show you an email that I sent. I 
so nobody wants to pay 
well, I told them to reserve it. 
How long does it? Send that in May. So so it's 
because of the relationship we have with the customer. 
Okay, 
no, for the last three months, sorry, for the last three projects. What activity actually delayed? Energization, civils, wiring or permit Politics, Politics? Can you elaborate? 
Politics between the client, okay, and the power provider. Why? 
They're trying to find a way to make it as cheap as possible. 
Okay? So they want to cut costs, yeah, but they have, they're not already agreed to a price. 
I see. So negotiations usually today. 
How long are we talking about? Six months, one year, yeah. 
What's okay? Give me like so that I understand. I come in, I give you a proposal that's 100% what is the biggest drop you've seen on price? 
Maybe 10 Naira per kilowatt hour or less. Okay, give me like, what does that equate to? 10% drop, 20% drop, if 
you can't inspire, 
okay, 
then 
another thing that affects the price is take or pay. The minimum take or pay. Minimum take or pay, let's take a quantity. So now if I am sending you power on 1.5 megawatts, yeah, so you need to have an agreement with me that every month you're going to take at least that point one. Yeah, it's about 80% if you go lower than this 80% you will tell me, but yeah, you're not using the power okay, I will tell you. The minimum is 80% you're gonna have to pay this. Yeah, you start to pay if you go above the 80% you pay more. If you're lower from 80% to 
70% okay, so that 10% is a lot. 
Okay, fair. 
What is the default payment schedule? Is that a percentage of the purchase order, excluding works positioning all of them from my 
buyer to me, buyer to you, expire. To me, they usually okay, 
or they'll pay 50% 50% next week, okay, but they won't take the engine until they finish the payment. Okay. We've had a situation before with Jeanette two years ago, where we delivered the engine before he even paid, but we didn't turn it on. We will not commission the engine before payment. Do we price in USD or Naira to be safe? USD, okay, cool, it's professional. 
Can AMC fees be bundled into a lease or a PPA to improve client cash flow 
in what way? In what way 
I'll come back to that. 
Actually, now you're saying, can they, like the AMC, instead of paying at once? Can they spread the payment out? Senator, 
yes, yeah. For certain customers, even though we don't do it, we want them to pay all at once. For certain customers, we agree for them. So okay today, yeah. So okay today, the client buy or signs a power purchase agreement, and separately wires a lump sum every year for annual maintenance contract. So bundling roll that yearly cost, the AMC cost, into the same monthly kilowatt hour payment they're already making for the asset or power the leads the final AMC to the monthly lease instalment. Client pays one predictable check, no surprise maintenance invoice. The power user, yeah, to the power provider. We're not the power user. We're not the power provider. Power User, yeah, doesn't pay anything for maintenance. Power User, end user, you 
know, so tonight doesn't charge them monthly on maintenance. Oh, it's all built into the price. It's built into the price because the engines are maintained by tonight. Yeah. So everything is okay. So we are doing what we are in the business right now, one of payments or one of sales. Okay, cool. So tonight, will then 
for the maintenance. You won't charge a customer because the price is built in already. You can go to your customer and say, this one, I'll charge you extra 10,000 years exactly, they'll be like, Yeah, don't do that to me. Yeah, okay, 
roughly what percentage of those last year came from Shadi Omar and Sahil, 50% 
from 
Shadi Omar. 25% Oh, wow. Okay, fine. There's other like other people bring other customers as well. Majdi Karami brought a customer. Okay? 
Who else? Who was a guy called Hafiz, he brought a customer. 
How many people are in your team? It's just everybody. Just like you're talking to a customer that wants 
to buy a diesel. You tell them, Okay, okay, in that case, this one seven. 
But the thing is, Shadi that gave merch to seminar. I don't much. He came to me for seminar. Shadi came to me for Bay came to me for seaweed. Chairman brought federal Alice Omar brought flour mint. Chairman brought hiatushail 
brought industrial and medical gases into his government contracts. 
I brought OMO wood, July himself. He brought Madison, blue. Majdi brought to race hotel. I brought Sahara. I brought saplings. 
Shaggy. Brought Robert. These are old people. They're old customers. Out of all of the ones that you just said, which is the most promising your table for you. 
And just while you're doing this, basically because the question was, what percentage Shadi Oman versus the hill, versus inbound web and phone, and what you're saying is this fuck off from web and phone or referral. 
So then this question about where do WhatsApp or phone leads live. It's on your phone, essentially. And I'm guessing that's how everyone in power does it. They just have the content on their phone. They don't match, yeah, okay. 
What referral incentives, if any, keeps heavy hitters like Charlie motivated, post handoff, well, he works for mechanics. Yeah, that's the reason. Why 
is that? If he has this commission. I don't Okay. Maybe he has this relationship with German based on you bring this out, you'll get this, um, if, if a referred gas supplier defaults, which is what happens? I believe that one, because then you have a relationship with them, and we have three. 
So if they default, I think they will let you know early enough. 
Another one, another one before. 
Okay, cool. Do we carry any liquidated damages exposure for missed delivery dates. So if 
you say we're going to deliver on social, no, okay, we say, sorry. 
Have we had a buyback on an engine? If so, why and what did it cost? Yeah, few engines. We bought them back because, you know, the customer doesn't mean or our relationship with the customer ended. Also take our engine back, because before we're selling power, we're going to sell power again. Okay, so we bought back. Okay, um, which add ons, like heat recovery, remote monitoring, performance, issuance, oh, sorry, insurance. Have 
a 30% attach rate together. 
Do we do any upsells? Upsells on a burger? They upsell 
you on a frozen drink, which is less than if you had a burger drink. So if they come to us to buy, to buy a gas generator. And we say, oh, we'll give you. Are there any extra add ons that we yeah, we could add in a transformer, okay, or incomer. Income? What's an income? 
These are equipments that you need for, for the for the engine. So example, so you sell synchronisation panel consists of income, 4000 amps, 66 kilo amps, fixed, ABB, ACS, AC, all of these. They're all accessories that you sell are long, okay. Do we have a, do we have, like, a stock list of the things? Stock of these? Yeah, no, non stop, as in, like, just like, the types of the categories, okay, um, fully electric, that's one 
what segment, plastics, food, farm, or anything else shows the shortest sales cycle. What do 
you like? If I'm let's say I want to speak to three people. One is in the plastics industry. One is in the fish one. One is in the pharma industry. Pharma, like pharmaceuticals. Oh, and you had to guess who were going to close the deal the quickest. But given that everything else in this okay, 
why do you say that their power is more sensitive? They can't afford downtime. Downtime is more. 
Is more. What word should I use? There's more consequences. 
So for example, now there's a wood factory, CBN, so it's money. Flour mill is food. 
This site is a is a power sites, they sell gas sites, 
those don't have power in their sites. 
I just don't have power on their sites, 
Sahara, 
another one of hospitality, hospitalities. Okay, so farmer, then hospital are you? Are you saying hospitality before food? 
I guess food is Big Boy, I can't say anything because they don't really see more eager. If we call seaweed, there's a chance we're going to call seaway soon. Then seaway falls on the food, because it's water. Yeah. 
Okay, yeah. So hospitality for food, because 
once the hotel is running, yeah, once the hotel is running, they can't afford downtime as well. 
People are going to be in the hotel food if, for example, your series, all your employees will know that there was no light. 
Okay, cool. So then okay, to come to come back, finally, to one of the points of get the lead from one of those guys. 
You then lead in order to organise a side inspection. That side inspection, you physically go with a technician, if it's illegal. So shall, I'm 
like, me come with you, because I need to see so then you have the side inspection. Then the technician will go away. 
Comprise what do they call it? A proposal. 
People at the site, they will give us their load analysis, their 
required load okay, then we will use that to send them an offer. 
Okay, so the next step is, is essentially what in this division, they call a PFI, yeah, it's coming interestingly, from the power provider, not from the equipment, yeah. Equipment provider, our goal. The reason I go 
is because I'm trying to push the deal. 
Okay, so actually, site visits are really important as a conversion point, because, depending on how they feel about your seriousness, and also push you more. You can't just do everything from my 
table. There's a chance, if you're not around, and there's one, there's a chance, because otherwise it's better than someone to see. This. 


47:27
